1. A, C, D: The Board of Certification (BOC) for athletic trainers is responsible for certifying athletic trainers by
providing an exam that must be passed to receive the credential. In addition, athletic trainers must regularly
complete continuing education units (CEUs) to stay informed on the latest science and best practices in the
field. The BOC is responsible for providing national standards on CEUs and offering continuing education
opportunities based on the requirements. The BOC provides a Code of Professional Responsibility for athletic
trainers, and they may enforce disciplinary action for any individual who does not comply with the
responsibilities outlined in the Code. The BOC does not evaluate each athletic trainer’s individual competence,
and salary ranges are determined by a variety of factors outside the BOC’s authority, such as the industry or
the employer.
2. A, C, D, E: The use of steroids is illegal without documented medical necessity. Steroids can have dangerous
side effects, especially for teenagers. Stunted growth is one important side effect. The bones mature faster than
normal, sending a signal to the body to stop growing. Steroid use can lead to infertility in both men and
women. In men, there can be a loss of sperm and a reduction in testicle size. In women, steroid use can lead to
disruption of the menstrual cycle. Steroids can lead to enlargement of the heart, certain types of cancer, muscle
aches, and hair loss. Steroids can cause elevations in blood cholesterol levels that can lead to heart disease.
Steroids can also lead to a change in behavior, characterized by violence, mood swings, and aggression. Most
athletes in college, Olympic, and professional sports will need to undergo drug testing to monitor for steroid
abuse. Athletes found to be abusing steroids face legal consequences.
3. A: Osteoporosis is characterized by decreased bone density, resulting in bone fragility and increased risk of
fracture. Spinal manipulations should not be used in osteoporosis because the manipulations can put excess
stress on the bones; however, spinal manipulations could be useful in promoting proper alignment and
reducing pain in the rest of the listed conditions.
4. C, E: MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) and impetigo are both skin infections that are
commonly spread through close contact, which is a significant component of wrestling. Proper cleaning
procedures can reduce or prevent these infections from being transmitted. Auricular hematoma, or
‘cauliflower ear,’ is a common wrestling injury, but it is caused by direct trauma to the ear and would not be
transmitted through contact with skin or wrestling mats. Psoriasis and eczema are chronic skin conditions that
are not transferred through person-to-person contact or touching an infected surface.
5. B: Injuries to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) are common in athletes participating in basketball, skiing,
soccer, and football. Injury to the ACL typically involves a hit to the side of the knee, landing from a jump,
hyperextending the knee, pivoting the knee, or a quick change in direction when running. The common
symptom that helps to distinguish this injury is a popping sound made at the time of injury. This sound occurs
as the ACL is torn either partially or completely. Significant knee swelling will occur within a few hours of
injury. Initial treatment should include elevating the leg so that the knee joint is above the heart, applying ice,
and administering pain relievers such as ibuprofen. The patient should be directed to obtain medical care from
a licensed physician.
6. C: Psychosocial approaches address psychological and social aspects of managing an injury, such as the
patient's emotional reactions to the injury. Fostering a positive attitude in an injured athlete is one example of
a psychosocial approach, as the positive attitude can help the patient manage the stress of injury and stay
motivated during the rehabilitation process.
7. B, C, D, E: Athletic trainers who work with long-distance runners need to be aware of injuries common to
this sport. Most injuries involve the hip, leg, or foot. Shin splints typically refers to pain that involves the area of
the tibia. It can be related to muscle, bone, or the attachment of the muscle to the bone. A stress fracture is a
microscopic break that is caused by repetitive force on an area such as the foot, lower leg, tibia, or fibula.
Achilles tendonitis is inflammation of the large tendon that is located in the back of the ankle. Iliotibial band
friction syndrome is pain in the knee that worsens with running or stepping up or down stairs. It is commonly
referred to as runner’s knee.
8. B: The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) is a federal law that was enacted in
1996 to protect the privacy of consumers in matters pertaining to health information. The law has other
purposes besides privacy: it covers health care providers, health insurance plans, and health care
clearinghouses. Unless there is a signed, written release specifically stating that personal health information
may be provided to athletic trainers or coaching staff, the physician is not obligated to comply with the
request. Given that the patient is over the age of 18, even her parents would not be able to obtain information
unless written authorization is provided. Many schools now require student athletes to sign releases
authorizing the release of medical information in order to participate in a sport. HIPAA is a confusing law in
regards to college athletics, but it is important to understand how it impacts the role of an athletic trainer.
9. A: A foam roller is a device used in myofascial release. It can be used by patients to perform self-massage for
soft tissues in various muscle groups. An athletic trainer may perform this modality but would likely use their
own hands. Soft tissues include muscle, tendons, ligaments, and the fascia. Foam rollers come in various sizes.
The patient can roll the device over an area 10 times to help loosen up an area that may be tight. Common
areas include lower and upper back, hamstring, gluteus, hip rotators, and shoulders. It can also be used to
warm up or cool down following exercise. The benefits of this therapeutic modality include improving the
range of motion of various joints, relieving muscle pain and soreness, and helping to maintain the normal
function of the muscle length.
10. A, E: The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) has rules for each sport, and athletic trainers
need to be informed and knowledgeable about these rules. The use of unpermitted equipment poses injury
risks to student athletes. Many rules pertain to the mandatory use of protective equipment, such as helmets, to
prevent injuries. Artificial limbs are not allowed for football players because of the potential to cause harm to
other players. A basketball player can play with certain injuries involving the arm area as long as the material
used to cover the injury is soft and not likely to cause harm. A pole-vaulter may use a forearm protector. In
softball, various types of casts and splints are allowed, but they must be well padded for the protection of all
players. The pitcher must wear a cast that is neutral in color so that it does not distract other players. All
jewelry is prohibited in volleyball, and jewelry must not be taped.
11. A, B, C, D, E: The female triad is the term used to describe disordered eating that leads to the development
of amenorrhea and osteoporosis. The disordered eating (DE) does not have to be a fully diagnosed eating
disorder, such as anorexia nervosa, but the female triad begins with DE. Disordered eating typically involves
not eating enough calories in an attempt to be thin. Weight loss is the first clue. Significant weight loss can lead
to amenorrhea, which is when menstruation stops. When this occurs for a prolonged period, it can lead to loss
of bone mass or osteoporosis due to lack of estrogen. Osteoporosis can be further complicated by inadequate
calcium intake. Other symptoms of DE may include dehydration, frequent urination, cold intolerance, inability
to focus, and dental problems. It is important to monitor the menstrual cycles of female athletes and to focus
on health and nutrition rather than weight and body size.
12. B: The observation of a swollen knee would go under the objective findings of SOAP notes. Objective
information is what the athletic trainer can observe or measure. The injured patient provides subjective
information, including pain levels and sensations felt during injury. Assessment involves the athletic trainer’s
best professional hypothesis on the nature and extent of the injury from the subjective and objective
information gathered. The plan area in SOAP notes details what treatment was provided and necessary next
steps.
13. A, B, C, D: Calcium is an important mineral in bone growth and repair. It has many other functions in the
body as well, including regulation of blood pressure and blood clotting. A bone density test is a test that uses x-
rays to determine the presence of osteoporosis and the overall risk of fracture. Osteoporosis is the thinning of the bones over time, and osteopenia is the condition in which the bones have started to thin but have not
progressed to the more advanced form of osteoporosis. Risk factors for osteoporosis include poor calcium
intake, poor overall eating habits, low body weight, smoking, female gender, Caucasian or Asian ethnicity, and
certain medications. Increasing calcium in the diet is one way to help treat osteopenia. High-calcium foods
include dairy products, tofu, and dark green leafy vegetables. Weight-bearing exercise is also recommended, as
well as refraining from smoking or excessive alcohol use.
14. C: The first step in any on-the-field emergency care assessment is to assess the athlete’s level of
consciousness. This assessment will guide the next decisions. Anyone who is unconscious should be
considered to have a life-threatening injury, and this necessitates calling 911 as the next step. Checking the
athlete’s health record would provide an unnecessary delay in the emergency response, and the other three
steps could be unnecessary or even dangerous depending on what is found upon further assessment.
15. D: If the athlete is wearing protective equipment such as a helmet and shoulder pads (as he would be
wearing in hockey) but they have shifted or otherwise do not allow the spine to be in a neutral position, both
helmet and shoulder pads should be removed while providing cervical spine stabilization. This provides easier
access for emergency care while minimizing further injury. Note that if the helmet and shoulder pads are in
place and the athlete's airway is not obstructed, it is generally better to leave the protective equipment on until
the athlete arrives at the emergency medical facility. A properly fitted helmet can be immobilized so that it in
turn keeps the head in position without risking further injury while removing it. Furthermore, the cold of a
hockey arena can contribute to shock, so removing any more equipment or clothing than necessary should be
avoided.
The athlete should not be logrolled with shoulder pads on, nor should only one shoulder pad be removed, as
these actions could compromise the cervical spine. The patient should not be assisted in sitting up, since the
extent of the injury is not clear, and stabilizing the patient is the first priority over shock prevention.
16. A, C, E: Blunt force trauma, such as a direct collision, can cause various upper extremity injuries, including
a fracture of the humerus, glenohumeral joint sprain, or acromioclavicular sprain. Shoulder impingement is
due to repetitive movement, and the mechanism of scapular dyskinesis is repetitive use with abnormal
scapular positioning or biomechanics. Neither of these are acute injuries from trauma.
17. C, D: The nature of such a sprain injury involves stretching or tearing of ligaments, compromising stability
and strength at the joint; therefore, two main objectives would be strengthening the surrounding muscles and
restoring stability. While the inflammatory process must occur as part of tissue healing, prolonging the
inflammatory phase is not a rehabilitation objective. Osteoblasts are responsible for building new bone and
would not be involved in a ligament injury. Since the ligaments are already compromised by injury, stretching
them further by increasing range of motion is not a rehabilitation objective.
18. B, E: A closed kinetic chain exercise or movement is when the distal extremities (in this case, the hands)
are in contact with a surface or on the ground to bear weight, as would be the case with weight shifts on the
hands and wall pushups. Conversely, in an open kinetic chain exercise or movement, the distal extremities are
not in contact with a surface where they are bearing weight. This can include physically holding or tossing a
free weight; therefore, supine ball toss and Y, T, and Ws are classified as open kinetic chain. The sleeper stretch
is also not a closed kinetic chain movement, as the hands are not affixed to a surface for weight-bearing.
19. B, D, E: Anthropometry, the measurement of a patient’s height and weight, is commonly done in fitness
testing; however, what is important is the assessment of body composition, which cannot be done with a scale.
Body weight is composed, in part, of adipose (or fat) tissue and muscle. Many athletes have an increased level
of muscle mass. Methods used to assess body composition are skinfold analysis, underwater weighing, and
bioelectrical impedance. BMI is an equation that has been determined to be ineffective at correctly assessing
body composition and is no longer recommended as a diagnostic tool. Skinfold analysis is completed using
skinfold calipers that directly measure the thickness of the skin when gently pulled away from the body at certain points. Equations are then used to convert those measurements into body compositions. Underwater
weighing involves the use of lung volume, the patient’s weight when measured underwater, and an equation.
Bioelectrical impedance measures the electrical resistance between electrodes placed on various points on the
body. Body fat will resist electricity, and body fat percentage can be calculated based on this data.
20. A, C, D, E: Objectives for managing Achilles tendinopathies include reducing or eliminating the repetitive
overload causing stress on the tendon. Symptoms can be increased if the gastrocnemius and/or soleus lack
flexibility, so stretching each of these may be a component of therapeutic intervention. Maintaining fitness
levels while minimizing tendon stress is also an objective, so the athletic trainer may have the patient engage
in exercises such as bicycling or circuit training. Plyometrics would not be used, as forceful, explosive
movement could put excess stress on the already inflamed Achilles tendon.
21. A, C: Observations in the overhead squat test may include observing that body segments are pulled out of
neutral alignment. Muscles that are excessively tight tend to pull in the direction of tightness. A patient with
lumbar lordosis likely has tight psoas and erector spinae muscles, as these are pulling the pelvis forward out of
neutral alignment.
22. B, C, E: If an athlete sustains an injury to the mouth that results in a tooth being knocked out, the best
chance of saving the tooth is to replace the tooth in its socket within 30 minutes. The tooth should only be
handled by its crown, not the roots. The tooth should be gently rinsed off with water but not scrubbed. It
should then be placed in an emergency tooth preservation kit, cold milk, or saline solution. If none of these
options is available, the tooth should be placed in the athlete’s mouth between the cheek and gum. The main
point is to keep the tooth moist at all times, and never wrapped in tissue or gauze which would expedite it
drying out. Once appropriately storing the tooth, the athlete should be brought to the nearest emergency
department for care.
23. A, B, E: Reliability refers to the consistency of a test and is a measure of whether the test will produce
similar results when repeated. Reliability is important for this scenario to get accurate preseason
measurements that can then be compared or used to identify areas of improvement. To maximize reliability,
assessment procedures should be as standardized as possible. This can include a standardized warm-up and
consistent rest times. Athletes should also know that assessments are coming, since factors like sleep,
nutrition, and hydration can affect results. Performing assessments at various times or having athletes test
each other could detract from the accuracy and consistency of the assessments.
24. A, B, E: In overtraining, there is an imbalance between an athlete’s ability to cope and the physical loads
placed on the athlete. Overtraining can result from inadequate rest and recovery or emotional stress and can
lead to staleness and burnout. An athlete experiencing overtraining is likely to experience a higher heart rate,
higher blood pressure, and increased risk of overuse injury. The parasympathetic system is associated with
states of relaxation in the body, such as resting, digestion, and conserving energy; therefore, this system would
not be more active when experiencing the stress of overtraining. Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that affects
mood. Higher levels promote feelings of happiness and well-being, so this also would not be increased in
overtraining.
25. E: Hypoglycemia is defined as a blood sugar level less than 70 mg/dL. Symptoms of hypoglycemia include
shaking, cold sweats, blurry vision, headache, hunger, irritability, and weakness. Most patients with diabetes
will be able to recognize the initial symptoms and will know they need to address the issue immediately. If
untreated, this can lead to seizures, unconsciousness, or coma. Treatment typically consists of 4 ounces of juice
or soda, 5 or 6 hard candies, or about a tablespoon of sugar and then waiting 15 minutes to see if the blood
sugar rises. If it does not, additional help may be needed. Once the blood sugar is in the normal range, a healthy
snack should be eaten to help sustain the blood sugar level. It is important not to over-treat a hypoglycemic
reaction with too much sugar, because this can cause additional issues if the blood sugar is too high. 
26. B, C, E: While chronic low back pain may not have one single cause, patients with chronic low back pain
will typically benefit from exercises that promote learning to stabilize the trunk and spine, such as the dying
bug, the drawing-in maneuver to co-contract the transverse abdominus and multifidus, and glute bridging.
Since the Romanian deadlift and leg press use weight as external resistance, they would not be appropriate in
the initial stages of a low back pain program. The patient needs to learn core stabilization with only
bodyweight movements first to retrain proper patterns.
27. A, C: Shoes for athletes must fit properly to minimize injury risk and maximize performance. Fitting
athletes for shoes should involve measuring from the heel to the metatarsophalangeal joint as well as the
distance from the heel to the longest toe, with the longer of the two measurements used for shoe fitting. For
the most customized fit, both feet should be measured, as they may differ in size. Shoes should be fitted at the
end of the day, not at the beginning. Since football is a sport requiring change of direction, smooth shoes would
put an athlete at risk of injury. Cleated shoes would be preferable. Orthotics are only needed if a patient’s feet
have biomechanical issues, so footwear that can accommodate orthotics would not be needed for the entire
team.
28. C, D: Hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) is a common side effect of insulin because blood glucose stability is
dependent on so many different factors. These factors include insulin dosage, timing and composition of meals,
exercise level, and more. Signs of a hypoglycemic reaction include shaking, sweating, and hunger. Later signs
can include confusion, fatigue, appearing intoxicated, and seizures that can lead to unconsciousness. Exercise
has a direct effect on blood glucose levels as well. Hypoglycemia is commonly seen and can occur before,
during, or after exercise. High levels of exercise can accelerate a low blood sugar reaction. It is important to
monitor blood glucose levels prior to exercising to determine if a snack or meal is needed. An athletic trainer
needs to be familiar with the signs of hypoglycemia, especially if working with patients with a known history of
any type of diabetes.
29. A, C, E: There are various types of PNF (proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation) techniques, all of which
involve contraction and relaxation of both agonist and antagonist muscles using cycles of a 10-second active
push phase and a 10-second passive relaxation phase. In contract-relax, the targeted muscle group is
isotonically contracted during the active push phase. In slow-reversal-hold-relax, the agonist muscle is
contracted while passive tension is applied to stretch the relaxed antagonist muscle. In hold-relax, the targeted
muscle group is contracted isometrically against resistance during the active push phase. Hold-contract,
contract-flex-extend, and stretch-contract are not PNF stretching techniques.
30. A, C, E: In the case of a suspected spinal cord injury, the first step is to always ensure that the patient is
breathing. The ABCs—airway, breathing, and circulation—should be verified. It is imperative that the neck and
spine be immobilized to prevent additional damage. The neck should be stabilized with a rigid cervical collar. A
soft collar would be used for comfort in conditions like a stiff neck where muscle guarding is present, it would
not be used in an acute emergency response to stabilize the neck. A scoop stretcher, spine board, or vacuum
mattress can be used if the patient needs to be transported; however, the patient should not perform any extra
movement, such as moving the neck. Overall, it is best to wait for first responders to assist with treatment for
this type of situation, but it is important to know how a possible spinal cord injury should be handled.
31. A, B, D, E: Taping techniques are commonly used to provide compression and support to injured areas or
to reduce the risk of re-injury in recovering areas. Specific taping techniques can be used to provide arch
support, to stabilize an ankle sprain, to provide support in specific fracture scenarios (such as a fractured toe),
or to protect a sprained thumb; however, taping techniques should never be used over an open wound, as
would be the case with a puncture wound on the palm.
32. B, E: Minimizing muscle atrophy (loss of muscle mass) can be done through immobilizing the muscle in a
neutral or lengthened position (rather than a shortened position) and through isometric muscle contractions,
where the muscle contracts but does not change length. Cold therapy and analgesics may be used as part of the
patient’s post-injury care but would not directly affect muscle atrophy. An athletic trainer would use manual
muscle testing to evaluate an acute injury, not as an atrophy reduction technique.
33. B, E: Initial treatment of a moderate hamstring strain might include resting and icing the injured area,
along with analgesics such as acetaminophen (Tylenol), to relieve pain. After a week, however, the patient
should begin rehabilitation. Static stretches, like the hamstring stretch, are most appropriate. Strengthening
the hamstring muscle should also commence, and this can be accomplished using a resistance band. Range of
motion exercises that gently begin to work the injured muscle— such as light jogging, stationary bike, or water
activities—can gradually begin. These activities should only last a few minutes with a goal of building
endurance. Running or excessive use of the injured hamstring should wait until there is no pain with previous
exercises. After gentle exercise, ice should be reapplied.
34. A: At any sign of blood, universal precautions should be the first step in treatment. Universal precautions
will help to stop the spread of bloodborne infection. If the player is conscious and able to apply pressure to the
wound on his own, he should be given a sterile or clean bandage and begin to apply pressure while the athletic
trainer puts on gloves. If he is not able to do this on his own and the athletic trainer is not able to put on gloves
right away, the trainer must make sure to use enough bandages to prevent blood from saturating the bandage
and to prevent direct contact with blood. A tourniquet is a last-ditch effort to stop bleeding and is not routinely
indicated. Pressure on the femoral artery will not help stop the bleeding for an arm injury because the femoral
artery is located in the groin area. A splint is required in the case of a broken bone to help immobilize the area
as well as to help stop the bleeding.
35. B: Many sports, such as football, basketball, and rugby, require or encourage athletes to gain weight in
order to maximize performance. Weight gain must be done gradually. If accomplished too quickly, the
resultant weight gain will be in the form of adipose tissue rather than lean body mass. Lean body mass consists
of muscle tissue, bones, and connective tissue. An increase in body fat will negatively affect performance. In
order for the body to gain weight, an additional 500 calories per day must be consumed above what is
expended. A rate of weight gain of approximately 1.5% per week is a good goal. This increase in caloric intake
should be coupled with a weight-training program to help build lean body mass.
36. B: Documentation is an important part of an athletic trainer’s job for many reasons. In professional sports,
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requires athletic trainers to document any injuries
received by players. If the athletic trainer works for a facility that is associated with a hospital, clinic, or
rehabilitation hospital, requirements for documentation may be set by the Joint Commission (formerly JCAHO)
or Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF). Documentation is important because it
provides legal protection, serving as written evidence that care was provided. Documentation also helps the
athletic trainer to remember what treatments have been performed with a player and also helps improve
communication with other professionals involved in the patient’s care. In some cases, documentation is part of
insurance reimbursement.
37. D, E: The scope of practice for an athletic trainer is based on practice standards, such as implementing
measures to prevent injury or illness, using examination procedures for diagnosis, and providing treatment in
accordance with their training. The duties within an athletic trainer’s scope of practice can overlap with those
of other health professionals; however, it would not be within scope of practice to provide counseling to a
patient, as that would require credentialing in mental health, such as that of a counselor, therapist, or
psychologist. Arthroscopic procedures would also be out of the scope of practice, as this is a surgical
intervention.
38. B, C, E: Emergency medical services should be called immediately because of the protruding bone. After
making sure the patient is breathing appropriately, initial treatment should begin. The point at which the tibia
punctured the skin should be covered with a sterile dressing to prevent infection. The leg should be
appropriately immobilized to prevent additional damage to nerves or circulation. Ice can be applied to help
prevent swelling. The patient should lie flat and be kept warm using a blanket to help prevent shock.
Administration of pain relievers should be delayed until additional medical help arrives, due to the potential
for surgery due to the open fracture.
39. B: In the Trendelenburg’s test, the patient stands on one leg, lifting one foot to bring the hip into flexion. A
positive Trendelenburg’s test is seen when the pelvis drops on the unaffected side. This indicates that the hip
abductors, such as the gluteus medius, are lacking the strength and stability to hold the pelvis level. The other
four listed choices do not act on the hip in abduction and would not be implicated by a positive
Trendelenburg’s test.
40. A, D, E: Sever’s disease (calcaneal apophysitis) is more common in young athletes and occurs at the bone
attachment site of the Achilles tendon. Epiphyseal growth plate injuries have various sub-types and are unique
to young athletes whose bones are not yet physically mature. Osgood-Schlatter disease is a type of apophysitis
with pain where the patellar tendon attaches to the tibia. Neither cervical dislocations nor syndesmotic ankle
sprains are specific to a physically immature population and can be caused by acute trauma at any age.
41. D: De Quervain’s syndrome is a type of tenosynovitis in the thumb that results in pain, tenderness, and
weakness. The carpometacarpal joint is the saddle joint of the thumb, where anterior/posterior glide
mobilizations can help with range of motion. The other listed options are for other areas of the body and not
applicable to the thumb.
42. B: Seated balance board exercises would be the most logical progression because they allow the affected
ankle to bear partial weight. Jogging, single-leg balance, and shuffle slides are all examples of full weight-
bearing activities, and progressing to these too soon could delay the injury’s healing. Anterior tibial glides are a
manual mobilization technique used to promote dorsiflexion and are not partial weight-bearing activities.
43. A, B, E: A concussion is a brain injury that occurs in response to a blow to the head. This can happen when
a player’s head has direct contact with another player, a hard surface, or a piece of equipment. Concussions can
be extremely dangerous and, in some cases, can result in permanent brain damage or death. Each patient will
experience a concussion in a different way. Loss of consciousness does not need to occur with a concussion. In
football, it is important to discourage any head or helmet contact between players. This includes stepping on
another player’s head, elbowing to the head, or any type of hitting. Symptoms of a concussion are wide-ranging
but can include confusion, disorientation, vision trouble, headache, nausea, reduced reaction time, and
imbalance. It is extremely important for a patient to not ignore these symptoms. The brain needs time to rest
and heal. Additional injuries are likely if a concussion does not heal.
44. B, D, E: Tests used to assess glenohumeral joint (shoulder) instability include the anterior drawer test, the
jerk test, and the sulcus test. A positive jerk test indicates posterior shoulder instability due to a labral tear
(this is different from the jerk test of Hughston, which is used to assess ACL instability). A positive jerk test
indicates posterior shoulder instability due to a labral tear. A positive sulcus test indicates that the
glenohumeral and coracohumeral ligament lack stability. The pinch grip test is used for assessing nerve
entrapment by the pronator teres. The bowstring test is used to assess irritation from the sciatic nerve.
45. A, B, C, E: Ligaments, joint capsules, tendons, and muscles (including their surrounding fascia) can all limit
flexibility, and therefore may be targeted in a therapeutic program aimed at improving flexibility. Bony
structures can limit flexibility, whether in natural movement due to normal end ranges (such as the olecranon
process that limits elbow extension) or in calcium deposits from injury; however, a therapeutic program would
not target bones, since they do not have elastic properties that would improve through flexibility enhancement
techniques.
46. B, E: Proper handwashing and patient isolation are the most effective preventive measures. A biohazard
bag is likely not necessary if there is no danger of coming in contact with the patient’s blood. Vaccinations are
important but do not protect against the spread of every type of disease, so universal precautions are still
necessary. Sterile equipment is also important but does not address how to prevent the patient’s own
pathogens from infecting others.
47. A, D, F: The HOPS format includes four categories used to evaluate an injury or illness: gathering a detailed
history, making general observations, using systematic palpation on bony and soft tissue areas, and
performing special tests. Objective findings and plan of care are parts of SOAP (subjective, objective,
assessment, plan) notes, not HOPS. Symptom analysis is not a part of the HOPS format.
48. C: The contraindicated situation is a patient with a laceration using a whirlpool. Using a whirlpool with an
open wound is not advised, as it can increase the risk of infection and introduce contamination into the
whirlpool.
49. C, E: Agility is defined as the ability to start and stop as well as to change directions. Agility in sports is
important, and regaining agility following an injury is a goal of rehabilitation. Testing for agility requires a
patient to accelerate and decelerate quickly, which can be difficult when recovering from a knee or ankle
injury. Results of agility testing should be compared with other patients in similar situations. One test for
agility is the Edgren Side Step Test. This test measures how well a patient can sidestep in 3-foot increments in
a 12-foot area and then change direction and sidestep back to the other side. The other test for agility is the T-
test. This test utilizes cones set up in a T-formation. The patient starts at the first cone and runs forward 10
yards to the second. The patient then runs left 5 yards to the third cone, runs right 10 yards to the fourth cone,
runs back to the center, and then back steps to the first cone.
50. E: The ability to provide emergency care during sporting events is essential. The certified athletic trainer is
able to handle some basic care until first responders arrive on the scene. The pocket mask is the piece of
equipment most likely to be carried by an athletic trainer to be used with CPR. This device is used to assist
with delivering oxygen to a patient who requires resuscitation. The mask is placed over the patient’s mouth to
act as a shield during resuscitation. Oxygen, if available, can also be delivered. Emergency care providers such
as emergency medical technicians (EMTs), paramedics, or physicians will have additional equipment such as
tubes to open up the airway, bag-valve mask resuscitators, and oxygen tanks. It is imperative that an athletic
trainer provide only the level of emergency care for which they have been trained and to let emergency
responders take over when they arrive on the scene.
51. A, B, C, E: Swelling, redness, pain, and heat are all characteristics of acute tissue response to injury that
would persist in the inflammatory response phase. The athletic trainer could use this information to determine
that therapeutic interventions should focus primarily on inflammation management strategies, such as
reducing swelling or controlling pain. Numbness is not a characteristic of the inflammatory response phase.
52. E: A stye is an infected or clogged oil gland of the eyelid. Warm, moist compresses are beneficial for styes
because they can encourage loosening of the infected or clogged material. Otitis externa (swimmer’s ear) may
require antibiotic drops, not heat. A hyphema is an injury caused by a blunt blow to the eye and requires
immediate care from an eye professional, though an eye patch may be used in the meantime. Epistaxis is a
nosebleed where ice and pressure, rather than heat, would be appropriate interventions. A subdural
hematoma is a life-threatening medical emergency, as it can cause hemorrhaging in the brain.
53. A, B, E: There are many possible causes of wrist pain. It is unlikely to be due to a fracture or dislocation
because this would result in a higher level of pain and inability to move through a full range of motion.
Osteoarthritis is a possibility, given her age and history of wrist injuries. Tendonitis and carpal tunnel
syndrome are also possible. These types of injuries are typically caused by repetitive motion that uses the
wrist for a long period of time without a break, such as playing tennis, using a computer, driving cross country,
or playing a string instrument. Additional information should be obtained about recent activities. Treatment
can vary based on actual diagnosis but involves pain relievers such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
54. D, E: Spirometry and a peak flow meter can be used to evaluate the extent of a patient’s asthma.
Spirometry measures lung function through forced exhalation, and a peak flow meter measures peak
expiratory flow rate. Lower-than-normal numbers in both of these may indicate breathing restrictions. The
other options would not be used to evaluate asthma. A complete blood count would be best suited for anemia or infection, echocardiography is used to view valves of the heart, and a glucometer is used to determine levels
of blood glucose (to evaluate metabolic syndrome or diabetes).
55. D, E: Caffeine and ephedrine are central nervous system stimulants that can cause increased heart rate, or
tachycardia. Consuming a glucose supplement or creatine in excess could cause gastrointestinal symptoms but
not tachycardia. Consuming B-vitamins would not cause tachycardia.
56. A, C, E: Pre-game meals should maximize muscle carbohydrate storage and reduce the probability of
gastrointestinal distress through delayed stomach emptying. Foods that are easily digested with low-to-
medium glycemic indices, such as white rice or toast, are appropriate choices. A liquid food supplement can
also be used to provide calories without adding food mass to the stomach that then would need to be digested.
In general, foods that are digested relatively slowly or promote gas formation should be avoided. These types
of foods include bacon because of its high fat content and soda because of carbonation.
57. E: Strengthening hip abduction is one focus of therapeutic intervention for piriformis syndrome. This could
be accomplished through single-leg abduction with tubing. The other movements are either lower body
movements or core movements that do not specifically target the hip abductors.
58. B: The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) mandates that hepatitis B vaccination must
be offered to any employee who is at risk of being exposed to bloodborne pathogens. Hepatitis B is a virus that
is spread through direct contact with bodily fluids, such as blood from an infected individual. Individuals who
are at high risk of contracting the hepatitis B virus include health care workers, athletic trainers, and any
workers who have the potential to be exposed to blood. Additionally, OSHA requires that a plan be in place that
outlines the procedure for dealing with exposures, including training, staff responsibilities, proper
documentation, and the use and availability of personal protective equipment. Any potential biohazardous
waste needs to be disposed of in proper containers lined with special red biohazard bags.
59. C: Protein is an extremely important nutrient, especially for athletes. Protein helps to build and repair
muscle tissue and plays a role in many other functions within the body. A normal person requires
approximately 0.8 grams per kilogram of protein per day. An athlete has a slightly higher protein requirement
of approximately 1.2–1.7 grams per kilogram per day. For the basketball player described in the question, this
would be approximately 135–195 grams per day. The majority of athletes can meet their protein requirements
through a normal diet. There is no scientifically sound evidence showing that extremely high levels of protein
will help build muscle faster. Excessive amounts of protein in the diet will make the kidneys have to work
harder to metabolize the protein and may cause the body to lose water in this process. Too much protein can
also impact the bones. The athlete’s normal diet should be evaluated by a dietitian to determine if additional
protein is required.
60. B, C, E: The medical record is considered a legal document, and care must be taken when entering
information. Only permanent ink should be used, never pencil or erasable ink. Mistakes should never be
erased, and entries should not be altered in any way. Each entry should have the time, date, signature, and title
of the person providing the documentation. Only factual and objective information can be entered. The care
should be written in chronological order. The patient’s response to treatment should be documented.
Appropriate and approved medical terminology should be used. Any change in condition, including progress,
should be documented. Records should be securely stored so that access is restricted to protect privacy.
61. C: Massaging the affected area is the only contraindicated choice out of the listed selections. All other listed
options are appropriate in managing the injury. Massaging a quadriceps contusion should be avoided because
it can further irritate the injured muscle tissue. With enough irritation, myositis ossificans, which are calcified
deposits in the injured muscle, can develop.
62. A, B, C, D: There are many factors that increase the chance of developing a heat-related illness while
exercising. These factors include being older than 65 years or a very young child. Obesity is a risk factor, as is
the presence of a medical condition that may further stress the body. The use of alcohol is a risk factor because technique are observed from the frontal and side views with 17 total scored items. The tuck jump test involves
10 seconds of alcohol causes dehydration. Wearing the wrong type of clothing is a risk factor. Hats or other types of
headwear are not recommended during exercise because this prevents heat from escaping. Loosely-fitting,
lightweight clothing should be selected. Frequent water breaks are recommended to keep athletes hydrated. In
addition, athletes from different climates should also become acclimated to a new climate prior to exercise to
prevent heat-related illness.
63. A, E: Evidence-based practice for an athletic trainer involves using the best current data from scientific
literature to make decisions. Databases such as Google Scholar can be used to obtain scientific evidence for
evaluation. Such scientific evidence, such as that from research studies (including randomized controlled
trials), can be used and applied to provide the best possible outcomes for patients. Asking other athletic
trainers does not use scientific literature, so it is not considered evidence-based practice. Creation of the
emergency response plan is also not part of evidence-based practice. Maintaining the appropriate
requirements for continuing education is a responsibility of the athletic trainer but is not an example of using
evidence-based practice.
64. A, C, D: It is important to begin rehabilitation as soon as possible following a back injury to hasten the
healing process. Resuming cardiovascular exercise is an important step. Walking is one of the best exercises to
start with because it keeps the spine straight. The patient can walk for a certain number of minutes, based on
tolerance, and gradually build up from there. Flexibility or stretching exercises of the hip and leg muscles are
also important. If the patient is able to maintain or improve flexibility, it will allow less movement of the spine.
Strengthening exercises for the core muscles of the back and abdomen are also indicated. The patient should
be advised to work on pulling their belly button inwards towards the spine and hold the muscles tight while
remembering to breathe.
65. B: Following knee injury, there are a number of exercises that can be done to strengthen the knee without
the use of equipment. In an open kinetic chain exercise for the lower body, the distal part of the leg moves
freely in space without being affixed to the ground, such as in a side-lying abduction. While leg extensions are
also open kinetic chain, isokinetic leg extensions are done on a specialized machine and would not be an
example of an unweighted exercise that could be done at home. Lateral lunges, single-leg deadlifts, and mini
squats are all closed kinetic chain exercises where the distal segment (the feet) are in contact with the ground.
While straight leg raises on a stability ball are open kinetic chain, this is a core stabilization exercise and would
not specifically target strengthening an injured knee.
66. B, C, D, E: CPR can only be performed when a patient is lying supine (on their back) and when the
environment is safe. A patient outdoors during a thunderstorm is in immediate danger of lightning strike and
will need to be moved for their safety and the rescuer’s safety. A patient in a pool must be removed from the
water before administering CPR and will need to be dried off if an automated external defibrillator (AED) is
used. A patient lying prone or on their side will not be in the proper position for the chest compressions and
breaths required for CPR. Careful repositioning is necessary in case the person has other injuries that could be
made worse with movement, such as a cervical spine injury.
67. B: Based on the patient’s reported symptoms and observed signs, the patient most likely has patellar
tendinopathy, also known as “jumper’s knee.” This is a chronic inflammatory condition that typically occurs
with overuse. The other patellar conditions listed would present with swelling and would typically occur from
acute causes, such as trauma or doing a cutting maneuver.
68. A, D, E: Providing stabilization for the knee by using a brace can benefit patellofemoral pain syndrome,
post-surgical healing of knee ligament injuries, and patellar dislocations. A knee plica occurs from a fibrotic
synovial fold, where inflammation is best minimized through rest, heat, and analgesics rather than using a
knee brace. A femoral neck fracture occurs in the hip, not the knee, so a knee brace would not be used.
69. B, D: Both the LESS test and the tuck jump test can be used to identify athletes who are at higher risk of
ACL injuries. The LESS test involves a jump-landing movement with rebounding, where errors in landingrepeated tuck jumps with visual observation of deficits based on 6 common mistakes. Athletes
demonstrating poor form on either or both tests are candidates for targeted injury prevention strategies. The
other three listed tests are not applicable to ACL injury prevention. The T-test measures agility, the sit-and-
reach test measures hamstring and low back flexibility, and the stork test measures balance.
70. C, D: The main purpose of fitness testing is to determine a baseline level of fitness. This can help designate
the most appropriate exercises to perform. The tests used to test cardiovascular endurance can depend on the
age or health status of the patient being tested. For a 60-year-old man with heart disease, the Rockport Fitness
Walking test and Harvard Step Test are the best choices. The Rockport Fitness Walking test requires the
participant to walk one mile as quickly as possible. At the end of this walk, the participant's heart rate is taken,
and his maximal volume of oxygen uptake (VO2 max) is calculated. Changes in this value over time are used to
assess progress. The Harvard Step Test involves the use of steps that are 20 inches high. The participant steps
up and down at a rate of 30 steps per minute until reaching exhaustion, which is defined as the point at which
the participant is not able to keep the pace for 15 seconds. At this point, the heart rate is monitored at one-,
two-, and three-minute intervals. The results are converted to the number of heartbeats in the recovery period
and are evaluated on a range of poor to excellent based on score.
71. B, C, E: If a patient might have a strain or a sprain, they should be advised to refrain from using the affected
part of the body. A physician can better assess the injury, and an x-ray may be required. Referral to an
emergency room or a call to emergency medical services is not usually necessary, although some patients may
choose to be seen in an urgent care facility. A sprained area will most likely require some type of support, such
as a splint, cast, or elastic bandage. An area with a strain will require rest. Both types of injuries will benefit
from some type of pain relief medication, such as acetaminophen. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, are not recommended because they can interfere with the body's inflammatory
process, which is important for healing. A strain will usually heal within a week, whereas a sprain may take as
long as four weeks to heal.
72. A, C, E: Ultrasound is typically used for reducing pain and inflammation and stimulating repair of soft
tissue injuries through deep heating. Adhesive capsulitis (“frozen shoulder”), muscle spasms, and shoulder
impingement can all benefit from ultrasound treatment. In thoracic outlet compression, nerves are
compressed due to various anatomical conditions. This would be treated with stretching and strengthening
rather than ultrasound. Ultrasound also would not typically be used on a broken bone that is healing, such as a
clavicular fracture.
73. B, C: A fractured clavicle or collarbone can take up to 12 weeks to fully heal, depending upon the age of the
patient. When entering the rehabilitation phase, the main goals are to maximize flexibility in the shoulder,
improve range of motion, and strengthen the muscles surrounding the collarbone area, including the
shoulders, upper arms, upper back, and chest. After initial treatment with immobilization using a sling, the
patient is gradually able to increase the level of activity in the shoulder. Initially, Codman’s exercises are
utilized, which consist of bending at the waist and allowing the arms to move like a pendulum. Next, the patient
can progress to additional strengthening exercises if no pain is present. These exercises are biceps curls,
shoulder shrugs, triceps extensions, and arm raises done without the use of weights. As healing progresses, the
use of elastic bands followed by weights can be incorporated. Returning to full activity requires verification by
x-ray that the fracture is completely healed.
74. C, D: A sprain and a strain are similar injuries, but there are some differences. They are similar because
both injuries cause pain and may cause some swelling and bruising. A sprain can occur when the ligaments
have been overstretched or torn, causing a mild to severe sprain. A sprain will typically cause pain
immediately and the patient may not be able to put any pressure on the injured area at all. Sprains will usually
involve wrists, knees or ankles. A strain is pain in a muscle that has been stretched too far. The most common
areas for strains are the back, legs, or neck. Strains are more likely to occur if a patient does not properly warm
up before engaging in certain activities.
75. C: Cold injury is most likely to occur in the hands, feet, nose, and ears. Cold injury can cause extensive
tissue damage if not treated appropriately. To treat cold injury, wet clothing should be removed, and the
affected area should be gradually rewarmed, such as through heating pads or warm water. Palpation may be
used to discern if the area is hard or numb, such as in frostbite. Warm fluids can be provided as they help
increase core temperature; however, the area should not be massaged as this may cause tissue damage or a
further decrease in core temperature.
76. B, D: The athletic trainer is not qualified to do many medical tests such as x-ray or MRI. If needed, these
types of tests will most likely be done by a licensed physician or medical professional. Though
electrostimulation as a treatment is within the scope of practice for an athletic trainer, it would not be
performed as a test. The athletic trainer can do a couple of simple tests during a physical examination to try to
assess the lower back pain. The first is the straight leg raise (SLR) test. The patient should lie flat on her back
and try to lift the leg straight up. The knee should remain straight. If pain is felt down the leg and below the
knee, a herniated disc is very likely. A second test to assess weakness is the heel-toe walk. Inability to do this
type of walk may signal nerve compression in the spine, caused by a herniated disc. A referral to a physician is
needed in this case. Treatment typically involves rest and anti-inflammatory medication for pain relief.
Sometimes, physical therapy or steroid injections may be recommended.
77. A, C, D: To become an athletic trainer, an individual must graduate with a bachelor’s degree from an
accredited institution. Next, the individual must pass the examination offered by the Board of Certification
(BOC) to become certified in athletic training (ATC). In order to work in most states, the individual must apply
and meet the requirements for registration, licensure, or certification. This is state-based and not a federal
requirement or law. Athletic trainers are subject to the rules of the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) and, if employed in a school, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA). FERPA is a law that deals with privacy of student education records; in most cases, health records
kept by school employees are considered to be part of the education record and therefore fall under FERPA
regulations rather than HIPAA. Athletic trainers are also required to follow the BOC practice standards and
code of ethics. In order to become recertified, continuing education guidelines must be followed.
78. A, B, C, D: The purpose of a warm-up is to prepare the body for activity through increasing blood flow to
muscles and enhancing the role of the nervous system, such as through promoting coordination. Skipping with
low knees, forward lunges, single-leg abductions with tubing, and dynamic stretches would all be activity-
specific preparations for the working joints and muscles used in actions like decelerating and changing
direction. Ballistic stretching has concerns for injury with applying repetitive, jerking force on muscle tissue
and has not been shown to be an effective part of a warm-up.
79. A: An acute injury is one that is considered to have occurred recently due to some type of trauma. A
chronic injury is one that is due to overuse or due to a condition that has been present for an extended period
of time. Symptoms of an acute injury include sudden and severe pain and swelling, tenderness, or extreme
weakness. Full range of motion in the affected area may not be possible. There may be an obvious visible break
or dislocation of a bone. Weight-bearing activity will likely not be possible with an acute injury. Chronic
injuries, on the other hand, typically will result in a dull, achy pain when the body is at rest or not engaged in
any particular activity. Swelling may also be present. Pain with either type of injury should not be ignored.
80. B, C, D: A ball-and-socket joint is a type of joint in which a ball moves within a socket so that rotary
movement is allowed in almost any direction. Examples of this type of joint are the shoulder and hip. The range
of motion seen in ball-and-socket joints are flexion and extension (bending and straightening), abduction and
adduction (pulling away from the midline and bringing back), and internal and external rotation. Pronation
and supination are seen in the forearm when twisting the palm to face up or down. Dorsiflexion and plantar
flexion are seen in the foot when the foot is bent upwards or downwards. Eversion and inversion are another
set of terms applying to the foot when the sole is rotated away or toward the median. During rehabilitation,
one of the goals is to increase range of motion in ball-and-socket joints in order to return to as close to pre-
injury status as possible.
81. A, E: While some degree of pronation is part of normal gait, over-pronation can cause altered foot
biomechanics during the stance phase of gait. Over time, this can lead to conditions like plantar fasciitis or
Achilles tendonitis. Chronic ankle instability tends to result from recurrent ankle sprains, not from over-
pronation. Pes cavus foot is a foot with a higher arch than normal and is usually associated with too much
supination, not over-pronation. Compartment syndrome is the result of traumatic or excessive activity and is
not directly related to over-pronation.
82. B, D: Naloxone (Narcan) is a medication that temporarily reverses the effects of an opioid overdose.
Naloxone is effective for reversal of all opioid overdoses, including those from illicit drugs such as heroin or
prescriptions such as oxycodone. Naloxone can be injected or used as a nasal spray. While all of the other
incidents are potentially life-threatening and require immediate care, naloxone (Narcan) would not be part of
the critical incident response.
83. A, C, E: A budget is a financial plan that dictates how the athletic training room will function for a certain
period of time. An operating budget includes the items needed for the day-to-day operations and is typically
written for a one-year period. A capital budget includes items that are required for long-term operations. A
capital budget is projected for 5–10 years. The money for these two budgets is separate from each other.
Typical items in the operating budget for an athletic training room include first-aid supplies, various
instruments needed such as scissors, and products needed for the different modalities employed, such as flexi-
wrap, heat packs, and ice bags. All the various types of tape needed would be included in the operating budget.
Items for the capital budget would be more expensive items such as a taping bench or whirlpool.
84. B: Based on the information from the scenario and the injured athlete’s history, shear stress from acute
trauma is the most likely mechanism of injury. Shear stress involves opposing forces, as described by the
athlete with his foot moving one way while his knee moved the other way. This injury is also most likely an
acute trauma based on the cause-and-effect of shear stress leading to pain and swelling in the knee.
85. A, C, D: Massage is an example of a manual therapeutic modality that involves pressing and manipulating
various parts of the body through the skin, muscles, tendons, and ligaments. The form of massage can vary
from light touch to deep pressure techniques. In sports, massage is used to help treat or prevent injury to
specific muscles. There are many reported benefits to massage therapy, including relief of spasms or muscle
pain, improvement in blood flow (which also promotes healing), and increased cell metabolism. This means
that cells are regenerating in the affected area. Other reported benefits include helping to restore full range of
motion. Athletic trainers should be suitably trained in massage techniques in order to prevent injuries such as
nerve damage, bleeding, and temporary paralysis.
86. B: The muscles of the rotator cuff (supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis) are a
group of muscles that function in abduction, internal rotation, and external rotation and provide stability to the
glenohumeral joint. Targeting the rotator cuff muscles is best accomplished through external rotation with
resistance bands. While the other movements may recruit the rotator cuff muscles to some extent as
stabilizers, these movements will not be as effective at directly targeting the rotator cuff muscles.
87. A, E: Actions taken by the athletic trainer in the primary survey assessment evaluate if life-threatening
conditions are present, such as airway obstruction or life-threatening injuries. This assessment helps the
athletic trainer determine the urgency of further emergency care for the patient. Medical history, pupil
response, and evaluating the extent of a sprain would all be part of the secondary survey rather than the
primary survey.
88. B, D: Medial tibial stress syndrome, often referred to as shin splints, is anterior shin pain caused by
repetitive microtrauma, such as from running and jumping. The repetitive jumping and running in basketball
and repetitive running in cross country can both cause this microtrauma. Baseball pitching, swimming, and
Olympic weightlifting are not athletic activities that typically place repetitive running or jumping impacts on
the lower body.
89. C, D, E: Circadian dysrhythmia, also known as jet lag, can occur when an individual travels outside of their
normal time zone, resulting in various symptoms of physiological stress such as changes in bowel habits,
digestive problems, headache, and fatigue. The other listed symptoms are typically related to exposure to
environmental extremes, such as extreme heat, extreme cold, or high altitude.
90. A, B, C, D, E: Alcohol can have a significant and lasting effect on athletic performance. The effects of one
night of drinking can last as long as three days and can affect overall performance and reaction time. Alcohol is
considered a source of empty calories because it does not provide vitamins or minerals. The body processes
alcohol similar to how it processes fat, which can lead to excessive fat deposition and weight gain. Alcohol
interferes with the quality of sleep, which can also impact performance and lead to fatigue. Alcohol dehydrates
the body; this can be dangerous for athletes because, due to stress and environmental conditions, they require
more fluids to keep hydrated. Alcohol can increase the risk of injury while playing a sport and also impacts the
body’s ability to recover following an injury. Alcohol can also lead to long-term health issues.
91. A, B, F: Enhancing core stability involves targeting the muscles in the lumbo-pelvic-hip complex that act on
the lumbar spine, abdominals, and hips, such as the latissimus dorsi, multifidus, and psoas. The trapezius acts
on the scapula, the semimembranosus is part of the hamstring muscle group, and the intercostals are the
muscles between the ribs; therefore, these would not be specifically implicated in a core stability program.
92. B, C: The symptoms described in this scenario are likely indicative of conjunctivitis (pink eye), which is
usually caused by a viral infection, bacterial infection, or allergic reaction. As some causes of this condition can
be highly contagious, the patient should be instructed to avoid contact with others and to seek treatment from
an eye care professional to resolve the condition. For conjunctivitis, preventing transmission to others is
critical. The other options are not effective infection prevention practices.
93. E: The most important step for beginning to deal with a student athlete who is suspected of having
disordered eating is to make the initial contact non-threatening. This needs to be done by a person of
authority, such as the athletic trainer or any of the coaching staff. The patient should be approached in private
and should not be made to feel uncomfortable or embarrassed. Discussions about her weight or disordered
eating should not be brought up at this time. Instead, the focus should be on her health and well-being. She
should be advised that a medical examination is being arranged and that it is not optional. She will not be
allowed to participate in the sport until the issue is addressed. A referral to a health care provider specializing
in disordered eating may be necessary. This health care professional may also need to talk to the team about
the issue, although confidentiality will prevent this person from directly discussing the patient.
94. D: A patient with iron-deficiency anemia will benefit from consuming foods that are high in iron to
maintain or increase iron stores. Red meat, such as beef, is one of the best sources of dietary iron. The other
listed foods contain minimal or no iron and will not be helpful for managing iron-deficiency anemia.
95. A: An unresponsive person with an obstructed airway, such as occurs when someone is choking, should
receive CPR immediately. CPR should start with chest compressions once they are safely lying supine and EMS
has been contacted. After 30 chest compressions, the airway should be opened to observe if the object is in the
mouth and can be swept out. Providing immediate CPR is more important than checking for a pulse in this
situation, and abdominal thrusts are only used for a conscious patient with a partial airway obstruction.
96. C: Any patient with severe allergies of this nature is at risk for anaphylactic shock if exposed to the
allergen. The athlete and the athletic trainer should have epinephrine (in the form of an injectable Epi-Pen) on
hand to manage a potential anaphylactic reaction. The other medications listed will not provide immediate
help in the event of anaphylaxis.
97. A, B, D: Scapular winging at the medial border indicates weakness of the trapezius, rhomboids, and
serratus anterior, which are scapular stabilizers. The push-up plus and its many variations strengthen the
serratus anterior. Shoulder Y-T-Ws on a physio ball and scapular adduction and downward rotation both
promote strengthening of the trapezius and rhomboids. The implicated muscles for winging need to be strengthened rather than stretched, so the sleeper stretch or rhomboid stretch would not be applicable in this
situation.
98. C, D: HBV (hepatitis B virus) and HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) are transmitted by pathogens
found in blood and can be transmitted through sharing needles or engaging in risky sexual practices. While
other bodily fluids can transmit these pathogens, contracting HBV or HIV through a hot tub, sharing a water
bottle, or from contaminated food would be nearly, if not completely, impossible.
99. A, E: Goniometric measurement and use of an inclinometer can both assess the range of motion at a given
joint. The athletic trainer could use either of these to compare the patient’s measurements over time to
determine their range of motion recovery. Testing deep tendon reflexes or using anthropometric
measurements would not provide information on range of motion. While the Functional Movement Screen
includes mobility as part of its seven movements, it tests dynamic functional movements and not exclusively
individual joint range of motion.
100. A, D: Isotonic movements involve changes in muscle length while force is being generated. Isotonic
movements may have a concentric component, an eccentric component, or both. From the description, this
exercise is a concentric isotonic exercise where the rhomboids and latissimus dorsi are shortening
(contracting) against the resistance. The scenario does not describe an isometric movement (where muscles
contract but do not change in length) or an isokinetic movement (where specialized equipment provides a
fixed speed to maintain the same level of resistance throughout the range of motion).
101. B: Compartment syndrome is the medical term used to describe an extremely painful condition that
occurs when pressure in the muscles increases to a dangerously high level. Compartment syndrome can be
acute or chronic, but an acute case is considered a medical emergency. It can occur with acute trauma to a
muscle because the fascia (or thick tissue) that surrounds and separates muscle groups is not able to expand.
This increase in pressure or swelling within the fascia stops the muscle and nerve cells from receiving oxygen
and nutrients and can lead to permanent nerve damage. Chronic compartment syndrome can be caused by
activities that utilize repetitive movements, such as running. The symptoms of this syndrome include loss of
sensation to the area, severe pain, and weakness. The skin will appear pale. On physical examination, the
patient will experience pain in the area if the muscle compartment is squeezed or attempt is made to move the
area.
102. D: The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) mandates that all student athletes undergo a
complete medical examination within six months of starting any type of required preseason conditioning,
practice, or competition. This mandate includes student athletes who are starting their first season of NCAA
eligibility and transfers. This medical examination must be completed prior to the start of the academic year
and covers the academic year and summer. Student athletes are then required to receive an updated medical
examination each academic year. Appropriate documentation must be submitted and retained for the athletes’
entire college career. The examination may be completed by the team physician or family physician. It may
also be completed by a nurse practitioner or physician assistant working under the direction of a licensed
medical doctor.
103. A, B, D, E: Responding to an acute eye injury includes assessments of eye movements, pupil dilation,
related injuries, or loss of vision. In addition, both eyes should be covered for emergency transport so that the
injured eye does not move. Pressure should not be applied to eye injuries.
104. A, C, D: The student athlete is showing signs of heat exhaustion. Some of the early symptoms are
dizziness, lightheadedness, extreme sweating, nausea, muscle cramps, weakness, and fatigue. Late symptoms
include headache, nausea, vomiting, and dilated pupils. As heat exhaustion progresses, it can lead to irrational
behavior and loss of consciousness. Immediate treatment consists of moving the patient to a cooler place and
elevating feet. A fan can be used to help lower body temperature, and cool cloths can be placed on the skin at
various pulse points such as the neck, armpits, or groin. The patient should begin to slowly rehydrate with cool water or sports beverages with approximately 4 ounces every 15 minutes. Pain relievers should not be
administered. Salt tablets should not be given because these may cause harm. If the patient does not show
signs of recovery or begins to show signs of shock or seizure, emergency care should be sought.
105. A, C, D: If an athletic trainer is held liable for harm, this means they had a legal responsibility that was not
upheld, even if this was unintentional or accidental. An athletic trainer’s responsibilities include providing an
acceptable standard of care, which includes being aware of risks such as equipment or debris that can obstruct
play, potential dangers from environmental hazards, or making decisions that put an athlete at higher potential
for injury, such as having them return to play prematurely post-injury.
106. B: The anterior drawer test can be used to assess the extent of injury if injury to the anterior talofibular
ligament is suspected. This test involves pushing the tibia backward while pulling the calcaneus forward.
Observation of the foot sliding forward and a clunking sound indicates a positive anterior drawer test. The
other tests would be used for other types of suspected lower extremity injuries, such as fracture, Achilles
tendon rupture, or meniscal tears.
107. A, B, D: Compression, analgesics (such as Tylenol) to relieve pain, and use of crutches for partial weight-
bearing are all beneficial in managing pain and swelling while reducing stress on the injured area. Traction is
often used to stretch ligaments and joint capsules. It would not be beneficial for an ankle sprain, ash the
affected ligaments have already been stressed and further stretching could cause damage. Dry needling is
typically used for trigger points within muscles and would not be a first-line therapeutic intervention for
sprained ankle ligaments.
108. A, D: The first stages of rehabilitation for this patient need to protect the injured structures as they are
healing. Non-weight-bearing cardiorespiratory activities, such as using a stationary bike or ergometer, can
help maintain fitness while avoiding stress on the injured area. Moving through pain-free ranges of motion in
dorsiflexion and plantar flexion will help the ankle joint stay mobile and ideally regain full function. While the
other options would be part of ankle sprain rehabilitation, these would be used in the later stages of
rehabilitation once healing has progressed.
109. B, D: Athletic trainers promote health literacy in those under their care when they provide guidance in
making informed decisions based on the ability to understand and use health-related information. A visual aid
can help the patient develop an accurate mental picture of her injury and understand the affected structures.
An illustrated handout with rehabilitative exercises can empower the patient to understand the active role the
patient plays in her own healing. While education on surgery would be an example of health literacy in some
cases, a grade 2 ankle sprain does not require surgery; therefore, this is not a correct answer in this situation.
Consent is an important aspect of treatment but is not part of health literacy. Using clinical terminology could
hinder health literacy rather than promote it because the patient may not understand this terminology.
110. A, C, E: Regaining neuromuscular control after an injury involves retraining the central nervous system
and the body to work together to consciously control movements. Neuromuscular control may include aspects
such as balance and proprioception, which would be enhanced through exercises on unstable surfaces. The
recovery program may include performing repetitions of functional strengthening exercises while maintaining
proper form, such as multiplanar lunges. Performing such exercises underwater can also improve
neuromuscular control. The other options could be used as therapeutic interventions for a knee injury but do
not specifically address the objective of regaining neuromuscular control.
111. D: The correct math for this question begins with calculating the patient’s maximum heart rate with the
provided equation:
0.64 × 19 = 12.16
211 − 12.16 = 198.84 The Karvonen method uses the following equation:
Target HR = (% intensity × HRR) + Resting HR
First, calculate the patient’s heart rate reserve (HRR) by subtracting resting heart rate from maximum heart
rate:
198.84 − 61 = 137.84
Next, multiply the HRR by the desired intensity, which in this case is 80%:
137.84 × 0.80 = 110.27
Finally, add the resting heart rate:
110.27 + 61 = 171.27
Rounding to the nearest whole number results in 171 beats per minute as vigorous intensity for this patient.
112. B, C: The main purpose of using screening tools is to identify factors that may put an athlete at risk. In this
case, a wellness screening could be used to assess the athlete’s lifestyle behaviors, including alcohol use, and a
mental health screening could be used to determine if further referral to a mental health professional is
needed. A family medical history, orthopedic screening, or medications assessment would not provide
information on the athlete’s current mental health status or lifestyle behaviors to determine if further
intervention is needed.
113. A, C, D: Unconsciousness, shock, and not breathing are all potentially life-threatening situations that
require a primary survey assessment; however, a primary survey assessment is not necessary if the injured
individual is stable and conscious, as would be the case for a conscious individual who reports a high level of
pain, a conscious individual who is able to relay to the athletic trainer what she heard or perceived in causing
her injury, or a conscious individual experiencing muscle cramps. While care is necessary, these are not
potentially life-threatening injuries or incidents.
114. B, C, E: Bursitis can occur from trauma or repetitive movement and manifests as the bursa around a joint
becoming irritated, swollen, and inflamed. The most common sites include the shoulder joint (subacromial
bursa), elbow joint (olecranon bursa), knee joint (prepatellar bursa), and hip joint (trochanteric bursa). Bursa
are located throughout the body, but the cervical spine or great toe are uncommon sites for bursitis to occur.
115. B, C, E: General rehabilitation for hip or thigh muscle injuries should include stretching the muscles for all
motions at the hip and thigh. These motions include flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, internal and
external rotation, and circumduction. The soleus slant board stretch and the standing dorsiflexor stretch
would both be used in cases of rehabilitation for the foot and ankle, rather than for the hips or thighs. The
prone extension stretch on hands is used for low back rehabilitation, not specifically for hips or thighs.
116. D: The premise of Wolff’s law is that tissues such as bones will adapt to the stresses that are placed upon
them and remodel accordingly. In the context of an injury rehabilitation program, the patient should progress
to weight-bearing, full range-of-motion exercises as soon as possible. This would promote fibula remodeling in
response to these demands, eventually resulting in attainment of full pre-injury strength and function.
Conversely, if the healing area is immobilized or not fully used for a prolonged period, there will not be
adequate stress for the fibula to remodel, resulting in decreased strength.
117. A, D, F: There are a variety of tests that an athletic trainer may use to evaluate concussion symptoms. The
SCAT-5 test (Sports Concussion Assessment Tool 5th edition) is the most widely used assessment to evaluate
signs and symptoms of concussions and includes assessments of coordination, balance, and cognition. The
VOMS (Vestibular/Ocular Motor Screening) assesses five domains of eye movements. The King-Devick test assesses eye movement and speed with comparisons to baseline measurements. The FADDIR is used to
evaluate low back strain, and the Lever sign is used to evaluate ACL injury; neither are used for concussion
symptoms. Tinel’s sign is used to evaluate nerve compromise in the posterior tibial nerve of the foot or in the
ulnar nerve of the forearm.
118. B, D, E: Setting goals, providing clear instruction, and minimizing pain are all ways to promote successful
outcomes in rehabilitation from an injury. These will all help the patient stay compliant and motivated toward
safely returning to activity. Creating a rehabilitation plan (also known as a plan of care) is within the
professional scope of an athletic trainer, so referring the patient to a physical therapist is not necessary and
could unnecessarily delay the beginning of the rehabilitation process. Dynamic functional activities would not
be implemented until the later phase of healing.
119. B, C: The SAID principle stands for “specific adaptation to imposed demands.” For any desired
adaptations in sports or athletic performance, the demands imposed on the body must be specific to create
those adaptations. High-intensity interval training, or HIIT, involves alternating short, high-intensity work
periods with active recovery periods and would be appropriate for the short bursts of speed needed on the
basketball court. An effective HIIT approach for basketball would be sprinting work. Plyometric training
involves the stretch-shortening cycle to generate explosive muscle movement and would be appropriate to
improve jumping and passing power in basketball. This could be accomplished through vertical jump drills or
medicine ball tosses. While the other choices could have some relevance to the training program, they are not
directly applicable to creating speed and power adaptations in the body.
120. C: It is important for everyone to eat a well-balanced, nutritious diet, but it is especially important for
athletes or those who are physically active. Proper nutrition helps to effectively fuel the body and maximize
endurance. The number of calories required by each athlete varies greatly based on body size, gender, activity
level, and age. For most physically active adults, the appropriate percentage of calories is 55–60% from
carbohydrates, 10–15% from protein, and no more than 30% from fat. The majority of carbohydrates should
be complex carbohydrates from whole-grain breads and cereals rather than simple sugars. All carbohydrates
break down to glucose and are used by the muscles for energy. Glucose that is not used for energy is stored as
glycogen for use when needed. Protein is used for building muscle and repairing cells. Fat is also used as a
source of energy as well as protecting organs and preventing excessive heat loss.
121. A, B, E: A urinalysis is typically a part of the pre-participation physical examination (PPE). As part of the
PPE, legal permission is not required unless the urinalysis is being done as part of a drug testing program. A
urinalysis can provide information on the presence of a urinary tract infection with an elevated white blood
cell count. Blood or nitrates in the urine may also indicate infection, and an elevated urine specific gravity may
indicate dehydration. A urinalysis can detect issues with the kidney or liver but is not commonly used to
screen for bone issues. It can also detect the presence of glucose or ketones, both of which may signal diabetes.
A urinalysis does not detect hypoglycemia.
122. A, C, D: Pre-planned details of an emergency action plan allow for a rapid and accurate response. Contact
information and consent forms for all athletes should be on hand in case medical care is needed. Any personnel
who are present during athletic activity (athletic trainer, coach, team physician, EMTs, etc.) should understand
their role in response to an emergency so that the injured party receives care as quickly as possible. Identifying
the risks of a given sport is also important so that proper emergency equipment is on hand. For example, tools
for removal are necessary for sports with helmets and padding. While the team physician is an important part
of the sports medicine team, the first person on the scene of an emergency (often the athletic trainer) should
know how to respond and should not defer responsibility. The yearly amount of funding in the budget is part
of an athletic trainer’s responsibility but is not part of emergency response.
123. D: Sickle cell disease is a hereditary disease commonly seen in individuals of African or Mediterranean
descent. It involves abnormally shaped red blood cells that are severely affected by low oxygen levels. Sickle
cell crisis involves extreme pain in the bones and joints. Symptoms include abdominal or chest pain, shortness of breath, rapid heart rate, fever, and fatigue. In some cases, a sickle cell crisis can progress to rhabdomyolysis.
This can cause damage and even death to muscle tissue. If rhabdomyolysis occurs and is not treated, kidney
failure can result. An athlete with sickle cell disease should ensure adequate hydration before, during, and after
exercise. This helps to keep the urine diluted enough to flush out the dangerous toxins that may be present,
preventing damage from occurring. Patients with sickle cell disease should be monitored closely at all times.
124. A, B, D: The development of a lightning safety plan is a necessary part of athletics. One person should be
designated to monitor the weather and also to make the decision about suspending or cancelling an event. The
nearest safe shelter location should be defined. This includes the nearest building that people normally use for
business (i.e., not a shed or bathroom facility) or a vehicle with a hard roof. The presence of thunder with a
blue sky can still be a source of danger because lightning can strike from as far as 10 miles away. The flash-to-
bang (or lightning to thunder) count should be no less than 30 seconds. Once the 30 second count is reached,
everyone should already be in a safe shelter or location. This is the equivalent of the storm being about six
miles away. At least 30 minutes should elapse between the last flash of lightning and the last clap of thunder
before resuming the sporting event.
125. D: Evaluating a pre-participation examination should be done in conjunction with the patient’s physician.
There are a number of conditions that would prohibit a patient from competition; however, it is at the
physician’s discretion to make this decision. A history of asthma would not necessarily prohibit a patient from
training or competing if it is well managed and medication is available. The blood pressure noted is in the
optimal range, which is a systolic reading less than 120 mm Hg and a diastolic reading less than 80 mm Hg. A
normal heart rate is 60–100 beats per minute (BPM), and some athletes in superb physical condition may have
a heart rate as low as 40 BPM. The hematocrit, however, is low compared to a normal range of 34.9–44.5% for
adult women and 38.8–50% for adult men. The hematocrit is the percentage of blood that is red blood cells.
Hemoglobin is a type of protein found in red blood cells that helps transport oxygen. A low hematocrit, and
therefore a low hemoglobin level, can lead to heart problems, because the heart may try to work harder to
pump more oxygen throughout the body.
126. C: The maturation-remodeling phase is the third phase of healing following the acute inflammatory
response phase and the fibroblastic repair phase. This phase can last the longest and has the primary focus of
regaining full function and strength once inflammation, pain, and swelling are under control from care in the
prior phases. Dynamic functional strengthening exercises are most appropriate at this stage to help restore
coordination and neuromuscular control that will transfer into real-life activities. Compression and elevation
are most appropriate during the acute inflammatory response phase to manage symptoms like pain and
swelling. Isometric exercise in an immobilized position is also most appropriate during the early stages of
rehabilitation when the injury needs to be protected. By the time of the maturation-remodeling phase,
immobilization would not be appropriate, as it could pose a delay in regaining full function and strength.
Aquatic exercise can be especially beneficial in the acute and fibroblastic repair phases to avoid excessive
weight-bearing on the injured knee. It could also be viable as cross-training in maturation-remodeling, but the
primary focus in this third phase of injury rehabilitation should be on using weight-bearing activities to regain
full function. This cannot adequately be done with just aquatic exercise. Cryotherapy is typically used in the
acute inflammatory response phase or the early stages of the fibroblastic repair phase as a method of cold
application to reduce pain and inflammation.
127. A, D, E, F: The priority in a primary survey is checking for life-threatening conditions that need
immediate attention. These include unconsciousness, absence of breathing, severe bleeding, and shock. All of
these are medical emergencies that require immediate intervention, such as activating EMS or starting CPR.
Once critical conditions are ruled out with the primary survey, the athletic trainer can proceed to the
secondary survey. While broken bones are important to address, they are typically identified during the
secondary survey. Vomiting is not part of the primary survey unless it causes airway obstruction. A rapid heart
rate indicates that the individual has circulation, so this would be most applicable to the secondary survey.
128. D: The correct approach for any suspected hip fracture is to splint the hip, knee, and ankle on the affected
side as well as the trunk. This immobilizes the entire lower extremity, provides the most stability for a femoral
fracture, and prevents further potential injury. Considering the athletic trainer has a field kit in his vehicle and
is in a residential area where he could improvise supplies for a splint, splinting the injury immediately is a
feasible first aid step that prevents further harm to the injured patient. Splinting the patient’s left hip and left
knee is not sufficient for a suspected femoral fracture, and splinting both the left hip and right hip is not
correct. Failure to properly immobilize a patient can cause harm, like tissue damage or hemorrhage. Elevating
the injured leg is not correct, as the injury should be immobilized before making any attempt to move the
patient. Similarly, it could cause harm to move the patient onto a spine board without immobilizing the injury.
129. C: Healthcare professionals use the patellar pubic percussion test to detect femoral fractures by tapping
the patella while holding a stethoscope over the pubic tubercle. The fractured side will have a diminished
sound compared to the non-injured side. The other listed tests are relevant to the hip and thigh but are not
specific to detecting femoral fractures. The scour test is for detecting hip labrum tears or impingement. Ely’s
test is used to evaluate the tightness of the rectus femoris. Craig’s test is used for measuring femoral
anteversion. The Thomas test is used to detect the presence of hip contractures.
130. A: Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) are tools used to gather information directly from
patients about aspects like their quality of life and the effectiveness of their care. These are typically structured
questionnaires and can provide important insight about patient care and progression from healing injuries.
The other listed options are used for other purposes, not patient-reported outcomes. Subjective, objective,
assessment, plan (SOAP) is a method used to document patient encounters. Patient condition, interventions,
comparison, outcome (PICO) is a framework used to formulate clinical research questions. The Strength of
Recommendation Taxonomy (SORT) is used to grade the quality of evidence in clinical practice. The National
Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) is a database used to track and analyze injury data from
emergency departments.
131. B, D, G: Neuromuscular control is essential for functional activities and is developed through
combinations of postural alignment, balance, stability, and strength. Using exercises for balance, such as
standing on unstable surfaces or walking in balance shoes, or closed kinetic chain exercises for strength, such
as stability ball wall slides, all help restore neuromuscular control. Passive exercise or therapy does not
promote neuromuscular control. This includes manual therapy techniques, such as femoral glides, or
modalities used for pain or swelling, such as thermal ultrasound or intermittent compression. Proprioceptive
neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) is a flexibility technique and does not primarily target neuromuscular
control. Isokinetic exercise uses a machine to move muscles at a constant speed, enhancing strength but not
specifically neuromuscular control.
132. C: Good Samaritan laws provide legal protection to individuals who voluntarily provide emergency care
to those in need without expectation of compensation. These laws are designed to encourage bystanders to
assist in emergencies without fear of being sued for unintentional injuries that may occur while providing aid.
In this scenario, the athletic trainer acted in good faith to save the jogger's life. Any injuries sustained during
the CPR process, such as bruised ribs, are considered a result of the necessary and appropriate emergency care
provided. The jogger's health insurance may cover medical expenses related to the incident, but it does not
provide legal protection for the athletic trainer. Health insurance is not related to liability protection in this
context. Informed consent is a process where a patient agrees to a treatment plan after being informed of the
risks, benefits, and alternatives. In emergency situations where the patient is unresponsive, obtaining
informed consent is not feasible; therefore, informed consent is not relevant to this scenario. Liability
insurance covers legal claims arising from professional services provided by the athletic trainer in their official
capacity. In this scenario, the athletic trainer is acting as a bystander, not as part of her professional role, so her
liability insurance does not apply. An indemnity plan is a type of insurance that is a traditional form of
healthcare billing. It is not relevant to providing legal protection. 133. C: High inter-rater reliability refers to having a high level of agreement in results among different
evaluators, which was the panel of athletic trainers in this case. Since the majority of them had the same result,
this indicates that the test is useful because there is consistency and agreement when different people perform
it. High test specificity indicates that the test has a high rate of correctly ruling in an injury. A positive
likelihood ratio is the likelihood that a positive test correctly indicates that the condition is present. This
measure is related to the diagnostic performance of the test and is calculated from sensitivity and specificity.
Sensitivity refers to a test’s ability to rule out an injury. None of these three are the best description because
they measure the diagnostic performance or accuracy of the test rather than the extent of agreement among
different evaluators. Intra-rater reliability refers to the same evaluator performing the same test multiple
times. Low intra-rater reliability would indicate that an individual did not get consistently similar results. This
option is not the best description, because the scenario describes multiple athletic trainers (inter-rater) rather
than a single one (intra-rater).
134. B: Clarifying and practicing the roles and responsibilities of each team member during an emergency is
critical to ensuring a quick and effective response, minimizing confusion, and enhancing the chances of a
positive outcome for the injured person. The other options are all important for emergency preparedness, but
they do not directly address the need for clarification of the staff’s roles and responsibilities to prevent this
type of issue from happening again.
135. A: Effective communication is a vital part of promoting adherence so that the patient knows and
understands what is expected of them, such as doing exercises or therapies at home. Verbal instruction is
important so that the patient feels informed, and written instructions help provide clarity so that the patient
can remember what to do in their plan. While some consistency is beneficial, keeping the exercise program the
same each week can lead to boredom and demotivation. Creativity and variation can help challenge the patient
and keep the plan interesting and motivating. The patient’s peers or family should not be the sole source of
positive reinforcement; the athletic trainer should also be a source of positive reinforcement in encouraging
the patient on their progress. Most rehabilitation should be pain-free, whereas a 5 on a 1–10 pain scale is a
significant level of discomfort. Patients are less likely to adhere if they expect that their treatment will typically
be painful. Setting specific goals is a key element of promoting adherence because it gives the patient direction
and motivation, so not setting goals would be counterproductive.
136. E: The upper quarter Y-balance test is designed to evaluate dynamic upper extremity mobility and core
stability. It uses a Y-Balance Test Kit and has the patient reach in varying directions with each arm while in a
pushup position. Because both arms are compared, this can help screen for asymmetries that may increase the
risk of injury. Out of the scenarios described, assessing the dynamic upper extremity mobility and core stability
in members of a volleyball team would be the most appropriate use of this test. Assessing frozen shoulder
would be more appropriate through tests specific to shoulder mobility and function, rather than through a
dynamic test like the upper quarter Y-balance test. Since this test evaluates the upper body, it would not be
appropriate to use it for lower body conditions like patellar fracture or recovering from total knee
replacement. Evaluating the presence of a pulse for diagnosing nerve compression would be done with special
tests like Tinel’s sign or Phalen’s test, not the upper quarter Y-balance test.
137. C: The knees-to-chest test is used to assess the lumbar spine by having the patient bring their knees to
their chest while lying supine. Pain indicates some type of lumbar pathology. Additionally, pain with a single
knee pulled into the chest can indicate irritation to the ligaments of the lower back. Spurling’s test and the
brachial plexus test are used for injuries to the cervical spine, not the lumbar spine. The vertebral artery test
detects the presence of occlusion due to compression in the cervical spine. Craig’s test assesses femoral
anteversion by measuring the femur’s angle to determine its extent of internal rotation.
138. D: The concept of assumption of risk is based on a participant acknowledging and accepting the inherent
risks involved with participating in an activity, such as a physical activity like a pickleball league. By signing the
form, the participant has given voluntary consent to accept the potential for these risks, which can limit their
ability to pursue legal action. While the signed form provides some level of protection for the facility by indicating that the participant understood and accepted the risk, it is not an automatic absolute protection. For
example, if negligence were found, the facility would not be automatically protected. Assumption of risk is
typically established through written consent so that there is a signed record rather than a verbal
acknowledgement. A signed form is generally considered sufficient evidence of assumption of risk, as it
assumes that the participant has read the form before signing. While the participant could pursue legal action,
the signed form can limit their ability to succeed in a legal case. Evidence of negligence is not a requirement for
a participant to pursue legal action, though it could strengthen their case if it were present; however, this does
not best describe the effects of the participant consenting to assumption of risk.
139. B: The National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment (NOCSAE) is responsible for
establishing test standards and safety requirements for athletic equipment, such as helmets, for football,
baseball, softball, and lacrosse. Confirming that the helmets are NOCSAE-approved and that they meet their
requirements for performance will ensure that they can be used safely. All other organizations listed do not
have roles that are specific to equipment safety. The National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS)
collects data on injury trends from consumer products. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)
Injury Surveillance System collects and analyzes data from NCAA sports and would not be relevant to a high
school setting. The National Athletic Trainers' Association (NATA) provides resources and support for athletic
trainers. As its name suggests, the National Center for Catastrophic Injury Research (NCCSIR) compiles data
about catastrophic injuries across sports environments.
140. A, D: Implied consent to treat applies when a person is unable to provide consent to treat due to their
condition and immediate action is necessary to prevent harm or save their life. In the cases of an unconscious
athlete with a severe head injury and an unresponsive athlete suffering from a suspected drug overdose,
neither is conscious to give consent and immediate care is necessary because these are life-threatening
situations. Implied consent does not apply in the other listed situations. Either the athlete is a minor and the
parents are taking over treatment of the injury, the athlete is explicitly requesting assistance (which is a form
of expressed consent), or the athlete is explicitly refusing treatment, which means that implied consent is not
applicable.
141. B: A goniometer is a tool that measures joint range of motion by using a stationary arm and a movable
arm to assess joint angle. In this situation, the athletic trainer would be able to use objective goniometer
measurements over time to assess the patient’s progress toward regaining normative range of motion. Sensory
testing assesses nerve function and sensation, not information about range of motion. Self-reported pain levels
are important, but they are subjective and would not provide the objective range of motion measurements that
indicate progress. Palpation would be used to assess abnormalities or tenderness, but it would not provide
measurable insight about range of motion. Measuring wrist girth could be used for assessing changes in
swelling or muscle mass, but it would not be the most effective option for measuring range of motion.
142. B: The current consensus on equipment removal in an emergency situation is that appropriate removal of
protective equipment should be done before transport by EMS. With a suspected cervical spine injury,
removing the helmet would be the most appropriate initial action. This would require two rescuers. One
should remove the helmet while the other stabilizes the cervical spine. While the shoulder pads should also be
removed, access to the athlete’s head and face takes priority. The helmet should be removed first so that the
athletic trainer can provide care, like airway management. Removing only the facemask but leaving the helmet
on would not be the most appropriate step. While removing the thorax protector would be necessary if an AED
is required, the immediate priority is stabilizing the spine while removing the helmet. Leaving the equipment
on is not the preferred option for the most effective care, as it could delay response in addressing the athlete’s
injury.
143. D: Meningitis is characterized by symptoms such as stiff neck, headache, fever, and light sensitivity. It is
caused by inflammation of the meninges around the brain and spinal cord and is contracted from a virus or
bacteria spread through respiratory droplets. Because meningitis is highly contagious, anyone with these
symptoms should be isolated from others as part of their treatment and recovery. The other options listed are more indicative of conditions other than meningitis, such as insulin shock, iron-deficiency anemia, some types
of sexually transmitted infections, and bronchitis, respectively.
144. B, C, E: Plyometric exercises that focus on proper technique and body mechanics have been shown to be
preventative for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. These also emphasize both the strength and
flexibility of the muscles that act on the knee joint, such as the quadriceps, hamstrings, and gastrocnemius.
Using elements of proprioception and balance is also preventative, as these improve the body’s ability to sense
and control its movement, reducing the risk of injury. Shoes with appropriate traction for the sport are
important, but not all sports need long cleats. Longer cleats can increase ACL injury risk by putting higher
rotational traction forces on the knee. Athletes who have sustained knee injuries are at greater risk for re-
injury, so even mild knee injuries should go through proper rehabilitation, not just training at reduced
intensities. A balanced strength ratio is important; however, it is recommended that the quadriceps be
stronger than the hamstrings, not the other way around. Hamstring strength should be about 60–70% of
quadriceps strength.
145. E: The Trendelenburg test is used to assess gluteal tendinopathies. The hip abductors, which include the
gluteus medius and minimus, are important for stabilizing the pelvis during a single-leg stance. A positive
Trendelenburg sign is when there is a drop of the iliac crest on the opposite side of the stance leg, such as if the
right iliac crest drops while standing on the left leg. This suggests weakness in the gluteus medius muscle on
the stance leg side. The other tests can be used to assess aspects like hip function, knee alignment, and muscle
strength but do not accurately reflect the Trendelenburg test procedure.
146. D: Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) is characterized by a dull ache in the center of the knee that gets
worse with activity, especially when the knee is flexed during weight-bearing, as would be the case with
running or walking with heavy gear. The soldier’s reported symptoms, including the gradual onset and
persistence of pain rather than pain from an acute trauma, align with those of PFPS. Larsen-Johansson disease
and Osgood-Schlatter disease typically present with severe pain and swelling and are usually found in
adolescents, so these diagnoses would be unlikely for this situation. Knee plicae are the folds in the knee joints’
linings and can become inflamed because of prior trauma. A characteristic sign of this condition is locking or
snapping in the knee, which is not present in this situation. In osteochondritis dissecans, a piece of cartilage
and subchondral bone separates from the joint surface, typically resulting in pain, swelling, and, sometimes,
the knee catching or locking. Without the presence of observed swelling or the knee catching or locking, a
diagnosis of osteochondritis dissecans does not accurately match what the patient is experiencing.
147. C, E: The signs and symptoms reported by the soldier are most indicative of patellofemoral pain
syndrome (PFPS). The patellar grind test and patellar apprehension test can be used for further assessment. In
the patellar grind test, pressure is applied to the patella while the patient contracts their quadriceps. Pain or a
grinding sound indicates a patellar pathology that may be associated with PFPS. In the patellar apprehension
test, the patella is pushed laterally with the knee relaxed. Signs of apprehension or discomfort may indicate
that the knee lacks stability, which is also typically associated with PFPS. The other tests are less appropriate
choices because they are used to assess more acute knee injuries or ones with signs and symptoms that
present differently from what the soldier is experiencing. More specifically, the Lachman drawer test and lever
sign test are used to assess whether the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) has been damaged. The Apley
distraction test is used to assess meniscal tears. The posterior drawer test is used to assess damage to the
posterior cruciate ligament (PCL).
148. A, F, H: Intrinsic risk factors come from within an individual, such as from biomechanics, body structure,
or existing health conditions. In this case, the soldier’s reported signs and symptoms are most consistent with
a chronic knee pathology like patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS). Intrinsic risk factors for PFPS include
iliotibial band tightness, gluteus medius weakness, and overpronation of the feet. Each of these intrinsic risk
factors can alter the patella’s alignment and stability, causing it to bear additional stress. Worn-out footwear,
training on hard surfaces, and a sudden increase in weekly running volume are all extrinsic risk factors.
Extrinsic factors exist outside the individual and can include the individual’s environment or behaviors. While
 diabetes and a low body mass index are intrinsic qualities, they are not intrinsic risk factors in this case
because neither is directly related to increased stress on the knee joint or the development of PFPS.
149. D: Biofeedback is a type of therapeutic modality that uses an electronic instrument to provide real-time
feedback on physiological actions. In a therapeutic setting for muscle re-education, sensors are placed on the
skin over the targeted muscles, and the patient receives real-time visual or auditory feedback on aspects like
the contraction of a given muscle. Biofeedback can be used to enhance strength in the targeted muscle groups
over time because the patient is learning to contract them effectively. The Graston technique is a form of
manual therapy for soft tissue restrictions. Iontophoresis uses electrical currents to administer medications to
the body to treat inflammation. Microcurrent electrical nerve stimulation also uses electrical currents to
stimulate healing and reduce pain. Shortwave diathermy uses high-frequency electromagnetic waves to
provide deep heating to tissues. None of these other options provide feedback that would help re-educate a
patient on effective muscle contraction.
150. E: A sequela (plural: sequelae) is a condition that results from an injury or a prior condition. In this
scenario, continuing to train without addressing the issue of knee pain could lead to the development of knee
osteoarthritis as a long-term consequence. Completion of a clinical questionnaire and findings of trigger points
could help with aspects of diagnosis and treatment, but they do not accurately illustrate sequelae. Undergoing
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) would best illustrate a diagnosis rather than a sequela. Avoiding activities
that cause knee pain would likely be a treatment recommendation, but it is not an example of a sequela.
151. B, E: While all of these exercises promote core stabilization, only the weighted ball D2 proprioceptive
neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) pattern and the chopping pattern with tubing are considered multiplanar
because the movements are executed through multiple planes of motion. The other listed movements are not
multiplanar because they are performed only in the sagittal plane.
152. A: These types of exercises are best described as functional training. Some exercises isolate areas of the
kinetic chain in a single plane and do not emphasize neuromuscular adaptations, such as many seated
resistance training movements using fixed weight machines. Functional training, on the other hand, requires
stabilization and control, which can better transfer into preventing injuries and improving performance.
Isokinetic exercises use a constant speed with specialized machines to perform movements in a single plane
and are often used for injury rehabilitation. Plyometric exercises focus on explosive movements, like jumps
and bounds, to improve power and speed. While plyometric movements can be functional movements, not all
functional movements are plyometric, so this is not the most accurate term for the scenario. Aerobic exercises
such as running, swimming, or circuit training increase the heart rate and improve cardiovascular endurance.
Functional movements could be part of an aerobic training program like a circuit, but "aerobic" does not best
describe the exercises the athletic trainer is using. Psychophysiological techniques such as biofeedback
address the interaction between the body and the mind. Such techniques are not necessarily exercise-based, so
this is not the correct term for the scenario,  either.
153. A: The proper emergency care for a patient going into shock includes promoting blood flow to vital
organs. In most cases of shock, the legs are elevated, but in the case of a head injury, the head and shoulders
should be elevated. Another point of proper care is keeping the patient’s body temperature as close to normal
as possible; therefore, ice bags would be contraindicated because they would cause a significant drop in body
temperature. Providing anything orally, such as water or medications, is not advised in the initial management
of shock. Controlled breathing is not the primary action in managing shock.
154. A, B: Measuring body composition is necessary to accomplish the athlete’s request since he is looking for
measurements of fat mass and fat-free (lean) mass in his body. Bioelectric impedance and skinfold
measurements are both methods of determining body composition. Bioelectric impedance passes an electrical
current through the body, and a skinfold test involves pinching subcutaneous fat with calipers at specific
locations. Body mass index (BMI) is a measure of body weight relative to height. It would indicate whether the
athlete’s weight has changed, but it is not useful for this scenario since it does not differentiate between muscleand fat. The T-test is a type of agility test used to assess fitness, not body composition. Basal metabolic rate
(BMR) is the number of calories a given individual needs to maintain basic physiological functions at rest. This
does not directly indicate any metrics of body composition. An inclinometer measurement is used to assess
flexibility by measuring ranges of joint motion. Strength-to-body-weight ratio can be useful for performance
assessment or athlete comparisons, but it is not a measure of body composition.
155. A: Spondylolysis is a defect or stress fracture in the pars interarticularis of the vertebra. Spondylolisthesis
occurs when there is forward displacement, or slippage, of a vertebra over the one below it, often due to
bilateral spondylolysis. This displacement, as a complication of spondylolysis, can lead to hypermobility of the
affected vertebra. Both spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis most commonly occur in the lumbar spine, not the
cervical spine. Spondylolysis is not related to disc herniation, nor does spondylolisthesis result from disc
degeneration. Both conditions can often be treated conservatively without surgery, especially in mild cases.
Spondylolysis is usually an acquired condition due to repetitive stress, not congenital. While spondylolisthesis
can cause radiating nerve pain if there is significant displacement, this is not its typical presentation in mild
cases.
156. B: The best practice for allowing a patient to return to sport or activity post-concussion is that all
symptoms must be fully resolved, and the return to activity must have a stepwise progression. Once the patient
has returned to regular school or work activities, as this patient has, the next step is light exercise. Protective
headgear does not mitigate the requirement for symptom resolution. The focus should be on completely
recovering function and being symptom-free. While rest and neurological function are important components
of concussion healing, the critical criterion is full resolution of symptoms since additional rest does not
guarantee recovery. Self-reporting feeling better is not a reliable indicator for a patient returning to activity.
While second impact syndrome is a risk in anyone who has sustained a concussion, a concussion does not
automatically mean that a patient can never return to sport.
157. C: In the Cozen’s test, the patient maintains a 45-degree flexion of the elbow. The athletic trainer resists
wrist extension to evaluate for lateral epicondylitis and resists wrist flexion to evaluate for medial
epicondylitis. Pain during the resisted flexion is a positive test for epicondylitis. The valgus stress test assesses
the integrity of the ulnar collateral ligament, such as in a suspected sprain. The carrying angle is the natural
angle formed between the upper arm and forearm in anatomical position. A 10-degree angle is normal and
does not indicate lateral epicondylitis. Hemorrhage and significant swelling are not typical signs of lateral
epicondylitis. These would more likely indicate some type of acute trauma, like a dislocated or fractured elbow.
The pinch grip test does not assess for lateral epicondylitis; it assesses for nerve involvement if the patient has
weakness or inability when pinching the thumb and index finger together.
158. B, C, F: The athletic trainer’s role in questions about nutrition and supplements centers around providing
general education and referrals, never any specific directives or recommendations. This general education
includes the idea that eating a balanced, varied diet is likely to provide enough vitamins and that taking large
amounts of vitamin supplements can cause toxicity. Referring the team members to a dietitian is also an
appropriate response so that the members can receive more personalized recommendations on their vitamin
supplement questions. While third-party verification is useful to indicate safety and quality, it is not in the
scope of an athletic trainer to provide specific guidance on vitamins, like what to look for or what to avoid.
Based on an athletic trainer’s scope, it is also not appropriate to directly encourage the use of vitamins for
these team members, such as by affirming that they can be useful for illness or advising that supplementation
is important.
159. E: Massage therapy promotes increased blood flow to the treated area, enhancing the delivery of oxygen
and nutrients essential for tissue repair. It also helps in the removal of metabolic waste products, reducing
swelling and inflammation. Boosting the sensitivity of nociceptors would be undesirable in therapeutic
intervention because it would mean that more pain is felt. Massage therapy typically has the opposite effect by
promoting relaxation, which decreases pain perception. While massage can provide pain relief and relaxation,
it is not a direct substitute for NSAIDs. NSAIDs may still be needed to reduce inflammation and pain, depending on the condition or injury. Muscle guarding is a protective mechanism the body uses to prevent further injury,
so it is not accurate to say that massage promotes muscle guarding. Massage therapy can help alleviate muscle
guarding, but it does not directly strengthen muscles. Massage can indirectly aid in flexibility and range of
motion by relaxing tight muscles, but this is not its primary benefit.
160. B: The Graston technique is a type of soft-tissue mobilization that uses handheld stainless-steel
instruments to break up restrictions in fascia or muscle tissue. Because repeated strains can set up the
formation of scar tissue in the injured area, restricting range of motion, the sprinter would be most likely to
benefit from the Graston technique to help restore range of motion and improve blood flow to the area. The
Graston technique would not be appropriate for an acute injury like a recent biceps brachii tear or an ankle
sprain in the inflammatory response phase. The Graston technique is applied to connective tissue, muscle, or
fascia but is not applied to bursae. A snapping hip can be caused by tight muscles or tendons moving over bony
structures. While the Graston technique could possibly address muscle tightness, it is not the primary
treatment for this condition. Decreasing pain is the priority, such as through POLICE and other therapeutic
modalities like ultrasound.
161. A: Thoracic outlet syndrome involves abnormal neurovascular compression, resulting in symptoms like
the ones described. While it can have varied causes, tight pectoralis major and minor muscles can be one of the
causes. Stretching the pectorals while strengthening the rhomboids, along with other muscles that promote
scapular stability, can improve posture and reduce compression on the thoracic outlet. The other pairs listed
are not directly targeted toward alleviating the symptoms of thoracic outlet syndrome. In addition,
strengthening the pectorals would not be recommended, as it could worsen the symptoms by increasing
compression.
162. A, D: A direct blow to the face can cause significant dental trauma. This is especially true in a mandibular
fracture due to the proximity of the teeth. The possibility of a concussion should always be suspected in any
facial fracture due to the high impact forces, so the athletic trainer should assess for concussion as part of the
critical incident response. An avulsion refers to skin being torn away, such as from shearing forces. Because the
athlete suffered a direct blow rather than a shearing force, an avulsion would not be likely. An orbital blowout
fracture is typically caused by direct trauma to the eye. It is unlikely to occur from trauma to the jaw.
Septicemia is a bacterial infection in the blood. Septicemia would not occur immediately upon a blow to the
face; rather, septicemia takes hours or days to develop from an infection.
163. A, B, E, F: Cross-training involves engaging in different types of physical activities to improve overall
fitness and reduce the risk of overuse injuries. By periodically taking a break from baseball-specific activities
and incorporating cross-training, the athlete can prevent repetitive stress on the elbow. Adequate recovery
between games is also essential to prevent overuse injuries, especially in young athletes whose bodies are still
developing. Using proper throwing techniques reduces unnecessary stress on the elbow joint and surrounding
structures. A well-rounded conditioning program that consistently incorporates strength and flexibility can
prevent muscle imbalances and enhance proper joint motion. Focusing solely on maximal power in each
training session is not a balanced approach, as it can neglect aspects like flexibility, strength, and recovery,
increasing the risk of strain on the elbow. Limiting participation in other sports is not necessarily beneficial.
Using a variety of activities, like incorporating cross-training, is a balanced strategy. Using ice packs after every
game does not address the underlying factors that contribute to injury risk. Avoiding strength training is not
necessary and could contribute to injury; instead, a balanced strength training program can enhance injury
prevention.
164. B: Cognitive restructuring involves changing negative thoughts into more positive and productive ones.
By guiding the patient to shift her self-talk and use thought-stopping techniques, the athletic trainer is helping
the patient cognitively restructure her mindset around the rehabilitation and recovery process. Goal setting is
important in injury recovery, but it is not the most accurate description of the athletic trainer’s actions.
Diverting attention is a method used to alter pain perception by doing a distracting activity or visualizing an
alternate, pleasant scenario. Imagery involves using visualization to create a mental picture. While using this tactic could be helpful for this patient, such as by visualizing a positive outcome and returning to activities
after full healing, it is not the technique being described in this scenario. Acceptance and commitment therapy
focuses on accepting negative thoughts while committing to actions aligned with personal values. This is not
the best description of the athletic trainer’s approach with this patient.
165. B: The open basket weave taping technique is commonly used for managing acute ankle sprains and is a
modification of the closed basket weave (Gibney) technique. This taping method supports the injured
ligaments, provides compression, and helps control swelling. A dislocated shoulder would be more
appropriately managed with a sling to immobilize it. While wrist strains or sprains can be taped, a wrist
fracture would be more effectively managed with a splint. Thigh contusions would be managed with POLICE,
not with taping as a standard treatment. Similarly, POLICE would apply to an acute low back strain; taping
techniques are not typically used for this type of injury.
166. B, E, F: The subacromial bursa, long head of the biceps tendon, and supraspinatus tendon are all under
the coracoacromial arch. These can become compressed and inflamed if space under the arch is compromised,
which leads to shoulder impingement. The other structures listed are not typically associated with shoulder
impingement, as they are not under the coracoacromial arch or part of the structures in the subacromial space.
167. D: Ankle dorsiflexion limited to less than 10 degrees is associated with a higher risk for ankle injuries.
Insufficient dorsiflexion can lead to altered movement patterns and increased stress on the ankle joint, which
can predispose individuals to conditions like ankle sprains or Achilles pathologies. Morton’s toe refers to a
condition where the second toe is longer than the first. While it can affect foot biomechanics, it is not a primary
risk factor for ankle injuries. A history of a quadriceps sprain may indicate a risk of future muscle strains, but it
is not directly related to the risk of ankle injuries. Increased lumbar lordosis affects overall posture and can
alter biomechanics, but it is not specifically associated with ankle injuries. Knee valgus, or inward collapse of
the knee, during a single-leg squat test indicates instability in knee alignment. This is more associated with
being a risk factor for knee injuries than ankle injuries.
168. D: The LowDye taping technique is best suited for this patient as it provides arch support for conditions
like overpronation, plantar fasciitis, and arch strain. The other taping techniques are not used in conditions of
the foot. Rotary taping is used to provide support for knee instability. The Gibney technique, also known as the
closed basket weave, is used for support for ankle sprains or ankles that are chronically unstable.
Hyperextension taping is specific to the knee, such as for providing support in hamstring strains. The
McConnell technique is used to help correct the orientation of the patella to promote proper patellar alignment
and tracking.
169. C: Easily digestible carbohydrates, such as white bread, cereal, or sports drinks, provide a quick source of
energy that the body can readily use during competition. These foods are less likely to provoke gastrointestinal
distress. If the team members are consuming fast food, they are likely consuming foods that are high in fat and
protein, which are more likely to cause gastrointestinal distress. A meal high in fat and protein is not as good a
source of sustained energy as a meal high in carbohydrates, so high-protein and high-fat foods should be
minimized or avoided in the pre-game meal. High-fiber foods are not ideal for pre-event nutrition because they
can cause gastrointestinal distress. A high-calorie meal is not the main focus for pre-event nutrition. The
athletes are likely already eating a high-calorie meal if they are consuming fast food. Rather than just the
quantity of calories, considering the quality and type of foods consumed is also a priority. While staying
hydrated through increased water intake is important, avoiding solid food is not necessary or recommended.
Consuming solid foods composed of easily digestible carbohydrates should help alleviate the symptoms that
the team members are experiencing with their current pre-game meals.
170. B: The Thomas test is used to assess hip flexor contractures, also known as tightness. During the test, the
patient lies supine and pulls one knee to the chest while the other leg remains extended. If the extended leg
does not remain flat on the table, it indicates tightness in the hip flexors. The Thomas test does not diagnose
171. B: The most effective next step in using a suction device is to logroll the patient onto their side or rotate
their head to the side. Next, perform a finger sweep and use the suction device. Positioning the patient in this
way helps reduce the risk of aspirating vomit and choking by allowing the vomit to drain and be suctioned.
Elevating the legs while keeping the patient supine does not address the risk of aspiration, as vomit can
accumulate in the mouth and throat while supine. A modified jaw thrust would be effective to open the airway
in suspected cervical spine injuries, but it does not address effective positioning for a patient who needs vomit
suctioned from their mouth. Stabilizing the cervical spine is important in patients with head or neck injuries,
but it is not the primary goal for this situation. Performing a finger sweep is a correct step before using a
suction device to remove excess vomit or other objects from the mouth, but rolling the patient to a prone
position is not optimal for effectively using a suction device.
172. E: Operational costs are items required for the day-to-day operation of the program and are different
from supplies and equipment like the other options listed. Operational costs include items like internet, phone
service, and liability insurance. Equipment and supplies such as treatment tables, knee braces, alcohol wipes,
and foam rollers are not considered operational costs. Larger items that can typically be used long-term, like a
treatment table, are considered to be equipment. Items intended for a single use, like alcohol wipes, are
expendable supplies. Items that can be reused, like knee braces, are non-expendable supplies.
173. A, B, E: Abdominal thrusts (Heimlich maneuver), back blows, and chest thrusts are all methods for
dislodging an object from the airway of someone who is choking. All of them create a force of pressure that
helps expel whatever is causing the obstruction. Offering water to a choking person is not the right course of
action, as it can cause the object to become further lodged in the throat. Performing a finger sweep is not
typically done unless the individual is unconscious and the object is clearly visible. A blind finger sweep can
push the object further down the airway. Chest compressions are performed as part of CPR if the person
becomes unresponsive, not for a conscious choking person.
174. D: In the initial stages of concussion management, it is critical to reduce or eliminate activities that
require mental concentration so that the brain can heal and symptoms like headaches or difficulty
concentrating are minimized. The patient should not engage in any mental activity that provokes symptoms.
They should gradually return to academic activities as the first step in the Sport Concussion Assessment Tool,
5th edition (SCAT5) graduated return-to-sport strategy. This step comes before doing any type of physical
exercise. Positional traction is a technique used to relieve musculoskeletal dysfunction, but it would not be
relevant for managing a concussion. Light therapy, such as LASER or LED, is not a standard treatment for
concussions. It is most typically used for helping heal skin issues. Exercises to regain neuromuscular control
may be appropriate in the later stages of the patient’s plan of care, but they are not the initial priority. The
patient’s brain must be adequately recovered before exercise is introduced as a therapeutic intervention.
Structural integration is a form of manual therapy that focuses on therapeutically manipulating fascia to
restore proper alignment and posture. Since it is targeted toward the musculoskeletal system, it would not be a
relevant therapy for a concussion.
175. C: Responding to a patient with a suspected concussion who has regained consciousness can be done
through the history, observation, palpation, special tests (HOPS) format. After taking a patient history, the
athletic trainer should observe the patient for signs of altered mental status or neurological function, such as
being disoriented, uncoordinated, or having retrograde amnesia. Next, the athletic trainer should palpate the
patient’s head and neck to assess for deformities. Lastly, the athletic trainer should administer a neurological
exam as a special test for concussion, covering aspects like cognitive function, motor testing, and cranial nerve
testing. The other options are either not the correct procedures or would be ill-advised. For example, if the
patient is talking and conscious, confirming a pulse is not necessary. In addition, releasing the patient from the
spine board without knowing the extent of the injury could be harmful.