1. Which of the following are considered roles and responsibilities of the Board of Certification (BOC)
for athletic training? Select all that apply.
a. Developing the certification exam for candidates who want to become athletic trainers
b. Performing an annual review on each athletic trainer’s competence
c. Defining the standards for the continuing education requirements for athletic trainers
d. Taking disciplinary action if an athletic trainer violates professional responsibilities
e. Determining salary ranges for athletic trainers based on their years of experience
2. What are some of the dangers of using anabolic steroids? Select all that apply.
a. Stunted growth in teenagers
b. Infertility for men only
c. Potential enlargement of the heart
d. High cholesterol levels
e. Violent or aggressive behavior
3. An athletic trainer plans to use spinal mobilization techniques as part of a patient’s therapeutic plan.
Which condition would be a contraindication for these techniques?
a. Osteoporosis
b. Cervical disc pain
c. Herniated lumbar disc
d. Lumbar strain
e. Sciatica
4. A head wrestling coach is working with the athletic trainer to enact cleaning and disinfecting
precautions for all mats and equipment so that they can better prevent the spread of disease among
the wrestling athletes. Which of the following diseases should the coach and trainer try to prevent
through these cleaning and disinfecting measures? Select all that apply.
a. Auricular hematoma
b. Psoriasis
c. MRSA
d. Eczema
e. Impetigo
5. During a high school basketball training camp, a boy complains of knee pain after landing from a
jump shot. He reports hearing a popping sound when the injury occurred. Which of the following is the
most likely explanation?
a. Fractured tibia
b. Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear
c. Sprained knee
d. Herniated disc
e. Jumper’s knee
6. Which of the following is an example of a psychosocial approach to helping a patient manage an
injury?
a. Scheduling regular rehabilitation sessions for the patient
b. Assessing the patient’s nutritional status
c. Fostering a positive attitude in the patient
d. Educating the patient on medications for pain relief
e. Evaluating the risk of re-injury from functional testing
7. Which of the following injuries are common in long distance runners? Select all that apply.
a. Rotator cuff injury
b. Shin splints
c. Stress fracture of the lower leg or foot
d. Iliotibial band friction syndrome
e. Achilles tendonitis
8. An athletic trainer suspects that a 19-year-old female gymnast might have an eating disorder. She
reveals that she is being treated by student health services, but she does not disclose the reason. The
athletic trainer calls student health services and talks to the physician, but the physician declines to
provide any information regarding the patient’s medical condition. What affords the physician this
right?
a. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
b. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
c. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
d. Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND)
e. Title IX
9. A foam roller is an example of what type of therapeutic modality?
a. Myofascial release
b. Deep massage
c. Electromagnetic therapy
d. Static therapy
e. Thermotherapy
10. Which of the following scenarios violate(s) National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)
guidelines? Select all that apply.
a. A football player with an artificial leg
b. A basketball player’s wrist covered with half an inch of foam and tape
c. A pole-vaulter using a forearm cover
d. A softball pitcher with a neutral-colored cast on her non-pitching arm
e. A volleyball player with newly pierced ears who has taped her ears in preparation for a game
11. Which of the following symptoms may be indicative of the female triad in a female athlete? Select
all that apply.
a. Stress fracture
b. Difficulty concentrating
c. Frequent urination
d. Cold intolerance
e. Significant weight loss
12. A high school football athlete sustains a knee injury while attempting an interception. The athletic
trainer begins to immediately assess the injury and provide care. The athletic trainer sees that the
athlete’s knee is swollen. In what area of SOAP notes would this observation be included?
a. Subjective
b. Objective
c. Assessment
d. Plan
13. A college athlete has a recurrent stress fracture in her foot due to long distance running. A bone
density test reveals a T-score of 2.2, indicating osteopenia. A registered dietitian recommends a high-
calcium diet. Which of the following foods are good sources of calcium? Select all that apply.
a. Yogurt
b. Cheese
c. Tofu
d. Dark green leafy vegetables
e. Whole grains
Refer to the following for questions 14–18:
A hockey athlete collides with a member of the opposing team during a playoff game,
slamming into the boards. The athlete falls to the ice and he appears to be motionless as the
athletic trainer approaches.
14. In this situation, the athletic trainer should FIRST:
a. Check the athlete’s health record for any pre-existing conditions.
b. Prepare to move the injured athlete from the ice.
c. Assess if the athlete is conscious.
d. Designate someone to bring an AED to the scene.
e. Remove the athlete’s facemask in preparation for providing CPR.
15. The athletic trainer’s assessment reveals that the patient is conscious and breathing. The patient
reports sharp, intense pain on one side of his neck. The athlete's helmet has shifted as a result of the
impact, forcing his head slightly to the opposite side. The athletic trainer suspects a cervical spine
injury or whiplash. Emergency services have arrived and would like to transport the athlete to the
hospital for further evaluation. If the athletic trainer decides to proceed with moving the patient off the
ice, what is the next step?
a. With the help of other responders, logroll the athlete onto a spine board.
b. Remove the shoulder pad on the side of the suspected injury and check for visible deformity.
c. Assist the athlete in sitting up and evaluate him for 30 seconds before assisting him to standing.
d. With the help of other responders, remove the athlete’s helmet and shoulder pads while stabilizing the
cervical spine.
e. Prepare to elevate the athlete’s legs to prevent shock.
16. What type of upper extremity injury might the hockey athlete have suffered based on the available
information? Select all that apply.
a. Fracture of the humerus
b. Shoulder impingement
c. Glenohumeral joint sprain
d. Scapular dyskinesis
e. Acromioclavicular sprain
17. If the hockey athlete’s injuries include a sprain of the shoulder ligaments, what will be a primary
objective of rehabilitation? Select all that apply.
a. Prolonging the inflammatory response phase in the affected joint
b. Improving the action of osteoblasts in the affected joint
c. Strengthening the muscles surrounding the affected joint
d. Restoring stability to the affected joint
e. Increasing range of motion in the ligaments surrounding the affected joint
18. As the hockey athlete progresses in his injury rehabilitation, the athletic trainer chooses to include
upper body closed kinetic chain exercises. Which of the following exercises would be classified as
closed kinetic chain? Select all that apply.
a. Supine weighted ball toss
b. Weight shifts while on the hands
c. Sleeper stretch
d. Y, T, and Ws with light dumbbells
e. Wall pushups
19. Which of the following are methods used for assessing body composition? Select all that apply.
a. Edgren test
b. Skinfold analysis
c. Body mass index
d. Underwater weighing
e. Bioelectrical impedance
20. A distance runner on the track team is experiencing Achilles tendon pain and stiffness. Which of the
following could be part of her therapeutic intervention? Select all that apply.
a. Stretching of the soleus muscle
b. Plyometric exercises
c. Stretching of the gastrocnemius muscle
d. Bicycling
e. Circuit training that avoids repetitive tendon motion
21. An athletic trainer is using the overhead squat test with patients and observes that some patients
exhibit lumbar lordosis. Muscles that are likely excessively tight in these patients include which of the
following? Select all that apply.
a. Psoas
b. Hip adductors
c. Erector spinae
d. Transverse abdominis
e. Gluteus medius
22. An athlete gets hit in the mouth by a softball and loses a front tooth. A teammate has located the
tooth. Which of the following are appropriate next steps? Select all that apply.
a. Scrub the tooth to remove the dirt, and then reinsert it into the socket.
b. Put the tooth into saline solution or an emergency tooth preservation kit.
c. Place the tooth in a cup of cold whole milk.
d. Wrap the tooth in clean gauze and give it to the athlete’s parents.
e. Ask the athlete to hold the tooth in the mouth, between the cheek and gum.
23. An athletic trainer and a strength & conditioning coach are preparing a team of volleyball athletes
to go through preseason assessments of strength, flexibility, and power. Which of the following would
enhance the reliability of these assessments? Select all that apply.
a. Providing a standardized warm-up to all athletes being tested
b. Maintaining consistent rest times for all athletes between assessments
c. Performing assessments at various times of day throughout the season
d. Having the athletes evaluate each other on the tests for time efficiency
e. Giving specific pre-assessment instructions to athletes on the days leading up to the assessments
24. A lacrosse athlete has been acting irritable, anxious, and disinterested in participating in practice.
The athletic trainer suspects that the athlete is experiencing overtraining. The athlete is also more
likely to experience which of the following? Select all that apply.
a. Increased heart rate
b. Increased risk of overuse injury
c. Increased parasympathetic activity
d. Increased serotonin secretion
e. Increased blood pressure
25. A patient with known diabetes mellitus has a hypoglycemic reaction during an athletic event. What
should be done to begin treatment?
a. Have the patient drink water.
b. Have the patient drink a quart of orange juice and return to the game.
c. Have the patient eat a sandwich.
d. Administer glucagon.
e. Have the patient drink 4 ounces of juice or soda, then reassess in 15 minutes.
26. An athletic trainer is planning a rehabilitation program for a patient with chronic low back pain.
Which of the following would be most appropriate in the initial stages of the program? Select all that
apply.
a. Romanian deadlift
b. Dying bug
c. Drawing-in maneuver
d. Leg press
e. Glute bridging
27. An athletic trainer is assisting the head football coach in selecting footwear for all athletes on the
football team. Which of the following considerations would apply? Select all that apply.
a. Take multiple measurements when fitting athletes for shoes.
b. Fit athletes with shoes at the beginning of the day.
c. Measure both feet to obtain correct sizing.
d. Choose shoes with smooth soles to increase acceleration.
e. Use footwear that will permit the insertion of orthotics.
28. A 25-year-old man is training for his first marathon. He was diagnosed with type 1, insulin-
dependent diabetes when he was 18 years old. He is done stretching and is getting ready to start his
run. He appears sweaty, shaky, and sluggish, but he brushes it off saying he didn’t sleep well last night.
Which of the following is the most appropriate initial response to this situation? Select all that apply.
a. Accept his explanation and allow him to run.
b. Suggest he take a dose of insulin before running due to high blood sugar.
c. Ask additional questions about his most recent insulin dose and meal, due to low blood sugar.
d. Prevent him from running until his blood glucose level has been checked and treated accordingly.
e. Call 911.
29. Which of the following is a type of PNF stretching technique? Select all that apply.
a. Contract-relax
b. Hold-contract
c. Slow-reversal-hold-relax
d. Contract-flex-extend
e. Hold-relax
f. Stretch-contract
30. In the initial treatment of a patient with a suspected spinal cord injury, which of the following is an
appropriate step to take? Select all that apply.
a. Ensure open airway, adequate breathing, and circulation.
b. Stabilize the neck with a soft cervical collar.
c. Use a scoop stretcher if the athlete needs to be transported.
d. Ask the athlete to move the neck through normal range of motion.
e. Stabilize the neck with a rigid collar.
31. In which of the following situations is it appropriate for the athletic trainer to use taping
techniques? Select all that apply.
a. A gymnast has foot pain from repetitive landing with flat arches.
b. A basketball player lands on another player’s foot after a layup and sprains an ankle.
c. A track athlete sustains a puncture wound to the palm of their hand.
d. A cross-country athlete falls, resulting in a fractured toe.
e. A volleyball player sprains their thumb during a match.
32. A patient with a recently torn ACL and meniscus is receiving care from the athletic trainer. What
can the athletic trainer do to minimize muscle atrophy as the patient’s injury heals? Select all that
apply.
a. Apply cold therapy at regular intervals.
b. Immobilize the patient’s leg in a neutral position.
c. Provide analgesics based on the patient’s level of pain.
d. Apply manual muscle testing to the quadriceps muscles.
e. Incorporate isometric muscle contractions into rehabilitation.
33. A tennis player experiences a moderate hamstring strain. A week later, he is ready to begin
rehabilitation. Which of the following is the most appropriate suggestion for the first week in
rehabilitation? Select all that apply.
a. Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation (RICE) protocol
b. Static stretches 5 times per day
c. Running on the treadmill for 20 minutes at a time
d. Ice to the hamstring muscle
e. Light sports massage to the hamstring muscle
34. During soccer practice, a player falls against the goal post and sustains a large, bleeding laceration
on his arm. Which of the following is the most appropriate immediate treatment of the injury?
a. Either you or the injured player applies a clean bandage and presses the wound while someone else
retrieves the first-aid kit and gloves.
b. Apply a tourniquet above the laceration.
c. Have the goalie apply pressure to the wound using a clean cloth while retrieving a pair of gloves.
d. Apply pressure on the femoral artery.
e. Apply a splint to the arm to help control the bleeding.
35. An athlete who is trying to gain weight should consume how many additional calories per day?
a. 250 calories
b. 500 calories
c. 750 calories
d. 1000 calories
e. 1500 calories
36. Which of the following regulatory agencies requires athletic trainers working with professional
sports teams to document any injury received by a player?
a. Joint Commission (JCAHO)
b. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
c. Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF)
d. National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)
e. National Football League (NFL)
37. In which of the following scenarios would an athletic trainer be acting outside the scope of
practice? Select all that apply.
a. The athletic trainer provides general nutrition education to a patient who has been diagnosed with
anemia.
b. The athletic trainer diagnoses a musculoskeletal injury based on what they observe and palpate.
c. The athletic trainer provides a physician referral to a patient based on abnormal lab test results.
d. The athletic trainer provides mental health counseling to a patient experiencing performance anxiety.
e. The athletic trainer performs arthroscopic procedures on a patient with an injured knee.
38. A cheerleader falls during a competition. Upon examination, her tibia bone is protruding. What are
appropriate steps to take in the immediate treatment of her fracture? Select all that apply.
a. Move her to a safe place.
b. Immobilize the leg.
c. Have her lay flat and cover her with a blanket.
d. Provide an over-the-counter pain reliever.
e. Apply sterile dressing to the wound.
39. An athletic trainer uses the Trendelenburg’s test on a patient with pain in the left hip and observes
a positive test on the right side. What muscle is likely weak in this patient?
a. Psoas
b. Gluteus medius
c. Piriformis
d. Vastus medialis
e. Adductor magnus
40. An athletic trainer is starting a new role working with patients in their early teens. Which
conditions should the athletic trainer be aware of that occur mostly in a physically immature
population? Select all that apply.
a. Sever’s disease
b. Cervical dislocations
c. Syndesmotic ankle sprains
d. Epiphyseal growth plate injuries
e. Osgood-Schlatter disease
41. Which of the following joint mobilization techniques would be most helpful as a therapeutic
intervention for de Quervain’s syndrome?
a. Anterior humeral glides
b. Posterior femoral glides
c. Humeroulnar traction
d. Carpometacarpal anterior/posterior glides
e. Thoracic rib facet joint mobilization
42. A patient with a grade 3 inversion ankle sprain has been cleared by the athletic trainer to progress
from non-weight-bearing to partial weight-bearing activity. Which of the following exercises or
movements would be the most logical choice for her progression?
a. Light jogging
b. Seated balance board exercises
c. Anterior tibial glides
d. Single-leg balance
e. Shuffle slides
43. The athletic trainer for a high school football team is giving an informational presentation on
concussions in high school football to the players and parents. Which of the following points should be
included in this presentation? Select all that apply.
a. Symptoms of a concussion can include headache, dizziness, irritability, and a reduced reaction time.
b. It is imperative that a concussion be identified and treated to allow time for the brain to heal.
c. It’s acceptable to wait 24 hours before reporting the onset of fuzzy vision and light sensitivity after
receiving an elbow to the head during practice.
d. A patient is typically able to return to playing football within 24 hours of a concussion.
e. There is a risk of additional brain damage or death if a concussion does not heal sufficiently and
another concussion occurs during this time.
44. A patient with a suspected shoulder injury is being evaluated by the athletic trainer. Which test(s)
could be used to assess if the glenohumeral joint lacks stability? Select all that apply.
a. Pinch grip test
b. Anterior drawer test
c. Bowstring test
d. Jerk test
e. Sulcus test
45. An athletic trainer is designing a therapeutic program that includes improving flexibility. Which of
the following body structures would be potentially targeted in the program? Select all that apply.
a. Ligaments
b. Joint capsules
c. Tendons
d. Bones
e. Muscle fascia
46. An athletic trainer was treating a patient who had a cough and a runny nose. Which of the following
actions would be effective in avoiding catching or spreading the patient's infection? Select all that
apply.
a. Placing any disposable materials touched by the patient into a biohazard bag
b. Washing hands immediately with antimicrobial soap and water after treating the patient
c. Ensuring the patient’s vaccinations are up to date
d. Using sterile equipment to treat the patient
e. Having the patient avoid contact with other teammates until symptoms resolve
47. An athletic trainer can use the HOPS format as a method for evaluating injury. Which components
are part of the HOPS format? Select all that apply.
a. Observation
b. Objective findings
c. Plan of care
d. Palpation
e. Symptom analysis
f. Special tests
48. In which of the following situations is the specified therapeutic modality contraindicated?
a. A patient experiencing joint stiffness after a muscle strain applies a heat pack to the affected area.
b. Traction is used on a patient with spondylolisthesis.
c. A patient with a laceration uses a whirlpool for pain relief.
d. Compression is used on a patient with a swollen ankle from a grade 3 sprain.
e. A patient with chronic shoulder pain and limited scapular mobility receives a massage.
49. When measuring a patient’s agility during rehabilitation for a knee injury, which of the following
tests might be used? Select all that apply.
a. Harvard Step Test
b. Cooper Agility Test
c. Edgren Side Step Test
d. Vertical Jump Test
e. T-test
50. What piece of equipment is most likely to be carried by an athletic trainer to be used in conjunction
with cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)?
a. Positive pressure ventilator
b. Bag valve mask resuscitators
c. Oxygen tank
d. Oropharyngeal airway tube
e. Pocket mask
51. A patient who sustained an injury 4 days ago is being evaluated by the athletic trainer to assess the
healing process and determine what therapeutic interventions are appropriate. Which of the following
would indicate that the patient is in the inflammatory response phase? Select all that apply.
a. Swelling
b. Redness
c. Pain
d. Numbness
e. Heat
52. Which of the following conditions of the head, face, and associated structures would benefit from
the use of heat as a therapeutic intervention?
a. Otitis externa
b. Hyphema
c. Epistaxis
d. Subdural hematoma
e. Stye
53. A 60-year-old woman is experiencing mild pain and tenderness in her wrist but is able to move it
through full range of motion. She reports no obvious trauma to the area. She has a history of diabetes,
controlled with diet and medication. She has fractured her wrist twice in the past 10 years. What are
the potential diagnoses based on this clinical evaluation? Select all that apply.
a. Osteoarthritis
b. Carpal tunnel syndrome
c. Wrist dislocation
d. Wrist fracture
e. Tendonitis
54. Three athletes on a track and field team have self-reported that they have asthma according to
their answers on a medical questionnaire. Which of the following diagnostic instruments could be used
to further evaluate the extent of their asthma? Select all that apply.
a. Complete blood count
b. Echocardiography
c. Glucometer
d. Spirometry
e. Peak flow meter
55. A cross-country athlete is experiencing tachycardia after consuming a supplement. Which
supplement could be responsible for this symptom? Select all that apply.
a. Glucose supplement
b. Creatine
c. B-vitamins
d. Caffeine
e. Ephedrine
56. Which of the following would be appropriate to include in a team’s pre-game meal? Select all that
apply.
a. White rice
b. Bacon
c. A liquid food supplement
d. Soda
e. Toast
57. A golfer is experiencing sciatic pain and has received a diagnosis of piriformis syndrome. Which
exercise would be most beneficial to improve his condition?
a. Glute bridging
b. Nordic hamstring exercise
c. Dying bug
d. Barbell squat
e. Single-leg abduction with tubing
58. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) mandates that any employee who is at
risk for exposure to bloodborne pathogens be offered a vaccination for which of the following?
a. Hepatitis A
b. Hepatitis B
c. Hepatitis C
d. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
e. Tuberculosis
59. A basketball player who weighs 250 pounds (114 kg) is eating a regular, balanced diet. He is trying
to build muscle and has started supplementing his diet with a commercial protein shake. What is a
good range of daily total protein intake for this patient?
a. 90–100 grams
b. 100–135 grams
c. 135–195 grams
d. 230–340 grams
e. 250–300 grams
60. Which of the following are appropriate guidelines for recording information in a patient’s medical
record? Select all that apply.
a. Document care in pencil.
b. Date all entries and legibly sign the entries with a name and title.
c. Store medical records in a secure place, such as a locked file cabinet.
d. Erase or white-out any mistakes in documentation.
e. Write entries in the chronological order that the care occurred.
61. An athlete sustains a Grade 2 quadriceps contusion. Which of the following would be
contraindicated in initial management of this injury?
a. Use of crutches
b. Use of analgesics
c. Massaging the affected area
d. Protecting the injury by placing the knee in flexion
e. Providing compression with an elastic bandage
62. Which of the following would be a potential contributor to the development of a heat-related illness
during exercise? Select all that apply.
a. Use of alcohol
b. Use of hats or bandanas
c. Obesity
d. Age greater than 65 years
e. Frequent water breaks
63. Which of the following is an example of an athletic trainer using evidence-based practice? Select all
that apply.
a. An athletic trainer implements findings from Google Scholar to promote self-myofascial release for
track and field athletes.
b. An athletic trainer asks other local athletic trainers about best practices in a collegiate gymnastics
program.
c. An athletic trainer creates a detailed emergency response plan that outlines the roles of responders
and a map of the athletic building.
d. An athletic trainer completes her emergency cardiac care certificate as part of continuing education.
e. An athletic trainer changes some of the rehabilitation exercises he uses based on results of multiple
randomized controlled trials.
64. What are the best rehabilitation exercises after a back injury? Select all that apply.
a. Flexibility exercises
b. Jogging
c. Walking
d. Core muscles exercises
e. Stair climber
65. An athletic trainer wants to provide a patient with non-weighted, open kinetic chain exercises that
he can implement at home as part of his rehabilitation process for strengthening an injured knee.
Which exercise would suit this purpose?
a. Lateral lunges
b. Side-lying abduction
c. Isokinetic leg extension
d. Single-leg deadlifts
e. Mini-squats
f. Straight leg raises on stability ball
66. In which situation would the athletic trainer need to move or reposition an unresponsive patient
before performing CPR? Select all that apply.
a. A high school athlete who is laying supine on a gym floor
b. An adult who is outdoors during audible thunder
c. A child who is in a swimming pool
d. An older adult who is lying prone
e. A college student who goes into shock after vomiting and is laying on their side
67. A volleyball athlete comes to the athletic trainer with complaints of gradually worsening, dull,
aching knee pain after practices and games that goes away with rest. Observation of the knee shows no
swelling. The athlete most likely has:
a. Patellar subluxation
b. Patellar tendinopathy
c. Patellar fracture
d. Patellar tendon rupture
e. Patellar dislocation
68. Which of the following injuries or conditions is likely to be improved by use of a knee brace? Select
all that apply.
a. Patellofemoral pain syndrome
b. Knee plica
c. Femoral neck fracture
d. Post-surgery of an MCL tear
e. Patellar dislocation
69. An athletic trainer wants to conduct testing for athletes on the women’s soccer team to help reduce
the occurrence of ACL injuries. Which test would be most helpful for this purpose? Select all that apply.
a. T-test
b. Landing error scoring system (LESS)
c. Sit-and-reach test
d. Tuck jump test
e. Stork test
70. A 60-year-old man with cardiovascular disease has been medically cleared to begin an exercise
program. What test would be an appropriate measure of cardiovascular endurance? Select all that
apply.
a. Sprint test
b. Vertical jump test
c. Rockport Fitness Walking test
d. Harvard Step Test
e. One-repetition maximum test
71. Which of the following statements is true regarding the initial treatment of a strain or sprain?
Select all that apply.
a. A patient with a strain or sprain should go immediately to the emergency room or call 911.
b. A patient with a sprain should wear a splint, cast, or elastic bandages to reduce swelling.
c. A patient with a sprain or a strain should go to a physician for further evaluation.
d. A patient with a strain or sprain should try to walk it off and reassess it in a couple hours.
e. A patient with a strain or sprain should take pain medication such as acetaminophen.
72. Which of the following upper body conditions would commonly be treated with ultrasound? Select
all that apply.
a. Adhesive capsulitis
b. Thoracic outlet compression
c. Muscle spasms in the spinal erectors
d. Clavicular fracture
e. Shoulder impingement
73. A patient is recovering from a fractured clavicle. He no longer requires the use of a sling and is
beginning rehabilitation. Which of the following exercises are appropriate to begin strengthening the
clavicle? Select all that apply.
a. Bicep curls and triceps extensions with weights
b. Bicep curls and triceps extensions without weights
c. Shrugs
d. Internal and external rotation using exercise bands
e. Free weights
74. What is the difference between a sprain and a strain? Select all that apply.
a. There is no real difference between the terms.
b. A strain hurts more than a sprain.
c. A strain is pain in the muscle, and a sprain is overstretched or torn ligaments.
d. A sprain is common in areas like the ankle, knee, or wrist, whereas a strain is common in the back, legs,
or neck.
e. A strain will not show any bruising.
75. Which of the following is contraindicated when initiating treatment for cold stress or cold injury?
a. Remove any wet clothing.
b. Use a heating pad or warm water bath for gradual rewarming.
c. Provide massage to the affected area.
d. Palpate the area to discern the presence of frostbite.
e. Provide warm fluids for the individual to drink.
76. While lifting weights, an athlete experiences lower back pain on one side of her body. What tests
should the athletic trainer perform to assess for lumbar disc herniation? Select all that apply.
a. X-ray of the spine
b. Straight leg raise (SLR) test
c. MRI
d. Heel-toe walk
e. Electrostimulation
77. Which of the following are required of athletic trainers? Select all that apply.
a. Following Board of Certification (BOC) practice standards
b. Obtaining federal licensure
c. Following Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) requirements
d. Following Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) requirements
e. Graduating from an accredited program with a minimum of an associate’s degree in athletic training
78. A football athlete recovering from injury has progressed through many components of his
rehabilitation and is now working on incorporating functional, sport-specific progressions, like
decelerating and changing direction. What movements would be most appropriate to include in this
athlete’s warm-up for such a program? Select all that apply.
a. Skipping with low knees
b. Forward lunges
c. Single-leg abduction with tubing
d. Dynamic quadriceps stretch
e. Ballistic hamstring stretch
79. Which of the following is an indication that a patient is suffering from a chronic injury instead of an
acute injury?
a. Dull ache when the body is at rest
b. Sudden and sharp pain
c. Swelling and extreme tenderness
d. Inability to perform weight-bearing activity on a lower extremity
e. Inability to perform full range of motion in the affected extremity
80. A ball-and-socket joint, such as the shoulder, is capable of which of the following types of motion?
Select all that apply.
a. Dorsiflexion and plantarflexion
b. Flexion and extension
c. Internal and external rotation
d. Abduction and adduction
e. Pronation and supination
81. A patient who exhibits over-pronation in her walking and running gait is more likely to experience
which of the following? Select all that apply.
a. Plantar fasciitis
b. Chronic ankle instability
c. Pes cavus foot
d. Compartment syndrome
e. Achilles tendonitis
82. In which situation would naloxone (Narcan) likely need to be administered? Select all that apply.
a. A patient has sustained a suspected brain hemorrhage from head trauma and is unresponsive.
b. A patient prescribed oxycodone for pain has been taking increasingly large amounts and is found
unconscious from an overdose.
c. A patient takes amphetamines to perform better and starts to experience rapid heart rate and
convulsions.
d. A patient went to a party and used heroin. Her friends found her unresponsive shortly after.
e. A patient was found with hypothermia and frostbite after getting lost on a trail run.
83. Which of the following is considered part of the operating budget for the athletic training room in a
high school? Select all that apply.
a. Band-Aids
b. Whirlpool
c. Slings and splints
d. Taping bench
e. Povidone-iodine
84. An athletic trainer is obtaining a history from an injured ski team athlete. The patient reports that
one of his skis got stuck in a patch of snow. His foot was moving to the right, but his knee moved to the
left. The patient reports pain and swelling in the right knee. What is the most likely mechanism of
injury?
a. Compressive stress from overuse
b. Shear stress from acute trauma
c. Tension stress from chronic trauma
d. Bending stress from abnormal biomechanics
e. Torsion stress from congenital conditions
85. What are the reported benefits of massage therapy for rehabilitation following a sports injury?
Select all that apply.
a. Relief from spasms
b. Decreased cell metabolism
c. Increased cell metabolism
d. Improved blood flow
e. Increased nerve excitability in surrounding tissues
86. An athletic trainer is designing a program to help a patient strengthen the muscles of his rotator
cuff. Which of the following exercises will be most effective?
a. Shrugs
b. External rotation with resistance band
c. Chest press
d. Horizontal adduction
e. 2-point kneeling weight shifts
87. Which of the following is an example of a primary survey assessment during a critical incident?
Select all that apply.
a. Assessing for airway obstruction
b. Gathering a detailed medical history from the patient
c. Observing pupil response
d. Evaluating the extent of a sprain
e. Checking for life-threatening injuries
88. Which of the following athletes would be most likely to develop medial tibial stress syndrome
(MTSS)? Select all that apply.
a. A baseball pitcher
b. A basketball player
c. A swimmer
d. A cross country runner
e. An Olympic weightlifter
89. Which of the following are common symptoms of circadian dysrhythmia? Select all that apply.
a. Fine motor skill impairment
b. Muscle cramps
c. Changes in bowel habits
d. Digestive problems
e. Headache
f. Dyspnea
g. Hallucinations
90. A collegiate athletic trainer is giving an information presentation to student athletes on the effects
of alcohol on athletic training. Which of the following points should be included in this presentation?
Select all that apply.
a. Alcohol provides empty calories at approximately 150–200 calories per drink.
b. The body converts alcohol to fatty acids, which can lead to weight gain.
c. Alcohol can lead to dehydration.
d. Alcohol interferes with the quality of sleep an athlete receives.
e. The effects of alcohol can last for a few days, leading to a reduction in reaction time and decreased
ability to concentrate.
91. An athletic trainer is designing a therapeutic program that incorporates core stability. Which
muscle or muscle group would be part of this core stability program? Select all that apply.
a. Latissimus dorsi
b. Multifidus
c. Trapezius
d. Semimembranosus
e. Intercostals
f. Psoas
92. Over the course of two days in the off-season, a baseball athlete has started to experience redness,
irritation, and discomfort in one eye. The athletic trainer should do which of the following? Select all
that apply.
a. Apply intermittent cold and heat to the eye until symptoms improve.
b. Have the patient avoid contact with others.
c. Advise the patient to seek treatment from an eye care professional.
d. Provide the patient with NSAIDs to reduce eye inflammation.
e. Instruct the patient to wear an eye patch over the affected eye during practices and games.
93. A female student patient may have an eating disorder. She has experienced significant weight loss,
and a few of her teammates have approached the athletic trainer with concerns regarding her use of
laxatives and restrictive eating. The athletic trainer discusses this issue with the coach. What is the
most appropriate plan for addressing this situation with the patient?
a. Do not allow her to participate in training or competition until she receives a full medical examination.
b. Call her parents and tell them to deal with this issue immediately.
c. Make a direct referral to an eating disorder specialist or counselor on campus.
d. Ask one of her teammates to talk to her about the health concerns, and if she is receptive, refer her to a
health care specialist.
e. Privately approach her and express concerns regarding her health, avoiding the topic of eating habits
or weight, and arrange a medical examination.
94. A pre-participation assessment for a patient discloses that he has been diagnosed with iron-
deficiency anemia. What food(s) will be most helpful in maintaining or improving his performance?
a. Salmon
b. Raspberries
c. Yogurt
d. Beef
e. Onions
95. A mixed martial arts athlete gets hit in the mouth during a match, dislodging a tooth and causing
the athlete to begin choking. If the athlete becomes unresponsive, what should the athletic trainer do
next once the athlete is safely lowered to the ground and EMS is contacted?
a. Start CPR with 30 chest compressions.
b. Check the athlete for a pulse.
c. Provide abdominal thrusts to dislodge the tooth.
d. Start CPR with 2 rescue breaths.
e. Check the athlete’s mouth for the dislodged tooth.
96. An athlete whose medical history includes severe allergies to wasps has joined the cross-country
team. What medication should the athlete and the athletic trainer have on hand?
a. Antihistamines
b. Corticosteroids
c. Epinephrine
d. Antibiotics
e. Aspirin
97. An athletic trainer observes scapular winging at the medial border in a patient. Which exercise
would be the most helpful therapeutic intervention for this patient? Select all that apply.
a. Push-up plus
b. Shoulder Y-T-W exercises on a physio ball
c. Sleeper stretch
d. Scapular adduction and downward rotation
e. Rhomboid myofascial stretch
98. In what situation would an athlete be most likely to contract HBV or HIV? Select all that apply.
a. An athlete used a hot tub when they had an open abrasion on their skin.
b. An athlete consumes undercooked meat at a team meal.
c. An athlete shares needles with others to inject performance-enhancing drugs.
d. An athlete has multiple sexual partners and rarely uses condoms.
e. An athlete shares a water bottle with other teammates.
99. An athletic trainer wants to use measurements to assess if a patient recovering from injury is
regaining range of motion. Which of the following could the athletic trainer employ to assess range of
motion? Select all that apply.
a. Goniometric measurement
b. Testing of deep tendon reflexes
c. Use of the Functional Movement Screen
d. Anthropometric measurements
e. Use of an inclinometer
100. An athlete performs a seated row on a cable machine. She initiates the movement by contracting
the muscles of the rhomboids and latissimus dorsi. What type of movement is this? Select all that apply.
a. Isotonic
b. Eccentric
c. Isokinetic
d. Concentric
e. Isometric
101. What is the medical term that describes a dangerous increase in pressure within the muscles?
a. Fracture
b. Compartment syndrome
c. Tendonitis
d. Bursitis
e. Muscle strain
102. Which of the following is TRUE regarding the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)-
mandatory medical examination of student athletes?
a. The medical examination must be conducted by the team physician.
b. The student athlete may participate in conditioning or limited practices prior to the completion of the
medical examination.
c. The student athlete will require an updated medical examination each year only if their health
condition changes.
d. The medical examination must be conducted within six months prior to participating in any type of
conditioning, practice, or competition associated with the team.
e. The medical examination must be conducted within one month prior to participating in any type of
conditioning, practice, or competition associated with the team.
103. A rugby athlete is elbowed in the eye by an opponent during a match. Which of the following are
appropriate steps in responding to this injury? Select all that apply.
a. Check eye movements and pupil dilation.
b. Assess if there are related injuries to the face, head, or neck.
c. Apply padding and elastic wrap to provide pressure on the eye.
d. Cover both eyes if the athlete is being transported for further emergency care.
e. Ask the athlete if they are experiencing any loss of vision.
104. During a high school varsity football practice, the temperature is 95°F. One of the linebackers is
complaining of nausea, lightheadedness, and fatigue. He has a headache and vomited approximately 30
minutes earlier. What should be done to initiate treatment? Select all that apply.
a. Have him go inside where there is air conditioning.
b. Provide a pain reliever for the headache.
c. Provide 4 ounces of water or sports drink every 15 minutes.
d. Use a fan to help cool the skin, and apply cool compresses on pulse points.
e. Provide salt tablets to help replace lost electrolytes.
Refer to the following for questions 105–109:
A group of female high school soccer athletes is playing a practice match when one of the
athletes appears to trip before collapsing to the ground. Upon trying to stand, she is unable to
place full weight upon her left foot and can walk only with difficulty. Based on an initial
assessment, the athletic trainer suspects a grade 2 inversion sprain of the anterior talofibular
ligament.
105. In which of the following scenarios could the athletic trainer be held liable for the athlete’s injury?
Select all that apply.
a. A few lacrosse balls were left on the field from the lacrosse team’s practice earlier that day.
b. The injured player was wearing too-large shoes from another teammate because she had forgotten
hers at home.
c. The soccer field was slick and wet from a rainstorm an hour earlier.
d. The injured player was still recovering from a mild calf muscle strain, but the athletic trainer allowed
her to participate in practice.
e. Another athlete tripped the injured player because of a disagreement they had prior to practice.
106. What special test would be most suitable to use for assessment of this patient's particular
suspected injury?
a. Percussion test
b. Anterior drawer test
c. Thompson test
d. Compression test
e. Apley distraction test
107. Which of the following modalities would likely be beneficial for treating this patient? Select all
that apply.
a. Providing compression through basket-weave taping
b. Analgesics
c. Traction
d. Using crutches for partial weight-bearing
e. Dry needling
108. The first stages of a rehabilitation program for this patient should include which of the following?
Select all that apply.
a. Maintaining cardiovascular fitness through non-weight-bearing exercise
b. Implementing standing exercises on an unstable surface
c. Doing strengthening exercises with light resistance in varied planes of motion
d. Use of plantarflexion and dorsiflexion exercises
e. Performing single-leg balance movements
109. Which of the following is an example of the athletic trainer promoting health literacy in this
patient? Select all that apply.
a. Educating the patient on surgery as a treatment option
b. Using a visual aid to explain the anatomy of the ankle ligaments
c. Obtaining consent to treat from both the patient and her parents
d. Providing an illustrated handout that shows range-of-motion exercises the patient can do at home
e. Using clinical terminology to outline the plans for rehabilitation
110. Which type of therapeutic technique or exercise would best help a patient regain neuromuscular
control when recovering from a knee injury? Select all that apply.
a. Standing exercises on unstable surfaces like a Bosu Balance trainer or rocker board
b. Self-myofascial release of the gastrocnemius
c. Aquatic exercise
d. Use of a knee brace
e. Multiplanar lunges
111. A 19-year-old patient with a resting heart rate of 61 asks the athletic trainer how to determine if
she is exercising at a vigorous intensity (80% of maximum heart rate).
To determine the patient’s maximum heart rate (MHR), use the following equation:
𝐌𝐇𝐑 = 𝟐𝟏𝟏 − (𝟎. 𝟔𝟒 × 𝐚𝐠𝐞)
What is the correct calculated target heart rate for the patient using the Karvonen method?
a. 184 beats per minute
b. 201 beats per minute
c. 163 beats per minute
d. 171 beats per minute
e. 198 beats per minute
112. An athlete has experienced the sudden death of a family member in a car accident. A few
teammates have told the athletic trainer that the athlete is dealing with her grief through excessive
alcohol use. Which of the following could the athletic trainer use for further screening and assessment
of the athlete? Select all that apply.
a. Family medical history
b. Wellness screening
c. Mental health screening
d. Orthopedic screening
e. Medications assessment
113. Which of the following situations requires a primary survey assessment? Select all that apply.
a. A gymnast is unconscious after hitting his head on the bars.
b. A hockey player sustains a testicular contusion from getting hit by the puck and reports his pain as an
8 out of 10.
c. A cheerleader gets stung by a bee and goes into anaphylactic shock.
d. A football player collapses during practice and is not breathing.
e. A powerlifter says she heard a snap at her biceps while attempting a heavy lift.
f. A runner is forced to withdraw from a marathon due to severe muscle cramps.
114. Which of the following is a common site for bursitis to occur? Select all that apply.
a. The cervical spine
b. The elbow
c. The hip
d. The great toe
e. The shoulder
15. Which of the following could be used as part of therapeutic interventions to rehabilitate injuries
to the muscles of the hips or thighs? Select all that apply.
a. Soleus slant board stretch
b. Supine gluteal stretch
c. Hamstring stretch on a stability ball
d. Standing dorsiflexor stretch
e. Quadriceps myofascial stretch
f. Prone extension stretch on the hands
116. An athletic trainer is designing a rehabilitation program for a patient with a fibular fracture.
Which of the following best illustrates the use of Wolff’s law in the patient’s rehabilitation program?
a. The athletic trainer educates the patient on over-the-counter drugs to reduce pain and swelling.
b. The patient regularly uses an arm ergometer to avoid stress on the healing area.
c. The athletic trainer clearly explains the nature of the healing process to the patient.
d. The patient progresses to weight-bearing, full range-of-motion exercises as soon as possible.
e. The athletic trainer has the patient regularly rate their pain on a 1–10 scale.
117. Which of the following assessment tools would be used for evaluating concussion symptoms?
Select all that apply.
a. SCAT-5
b. FADDIR Test
c. Lever sign test
d. VOMS
e. Tinel’s sign
f. King-Devick Test
118. A patient is beginning a rehabilitation plan to recover from an injury. Which of the following are
ways that the athletic trainer can promote a successful outcome? Select all that apply.
a. Refer the patient to a physical therapist to create a rehabilitation plan.
b. Set long-term and short-term measurable goals.
c. Begin using dynamic functional activities within the first week after the injury.
d. Provide clear verbal and written explanations on the therapeutic exercises to be performed.
e. Ensure that rehabilitation minimizes unnecessary pain.
119. According to the SAID principle, which type of training would be most suitable for a college
basketball player seeking to improve his speed and power on the court? Select all that apply.
a. Continuous endurance training
b. High-intensity interval training
c. Plyometric training
d. Core stability training
e. Bodyweight circuit training
120. Which of the following best describes the recommended percentage of total calories from protein,
fat, and carbohydrates for most physically active adults?
a. 10% protein, 20% fat, 70% carbohydrates
b. 20% protein, 30% fat, 50% carbohydrates
c. 10–15% protein, 30% fat, 55–65% carbohydrates
d. 25–30% protein, 10% fat, 60% carbohydrates
e. 30% protein, 30% fat, 40% carbohydrates
121. A urinalysis may be useful in detecting which of the following? Select all that apply.
a. Alterations in hydration
b. Urinary tract infection
c. Bone Issues
d. Hypoglycemia
e. Drug use
122. Which of the following is part of an emergency action plan for a sports team? Select all that apply.
a. Retaining contact information and consent forms for all athletes
b. Deferring to the team physician for all medical emergencies that arise
c. Outlining the roles and responsibilities of each medical professional
d. Identifying the risks associated with the sport to determine the availability of emergency equipment
e. Assessing the yearly amount of funds used in the operating budget
123. If an athlete with sickle cell disease experiences chest or abdominal pain and pain in the joints,
they may be at immediate risk for which of the following complications?
a. Kidney failure
b. Seizures
c. Dehydration
d. Rhabdomyolysis
e. Hypotension
124. Which of the following are recommendations provided by the National Collegiate Athletic
Association (NCAA) for lightning safety? Select all that apply.
a. One person should be designated to monitor the weather before and during sporting events and
practices.
b. Be aware of the location of the closest safe structure where teams and spectators can seek shelter if
necessary.
c. Cancel sporting events at the first sound of thunder.
d. If the time between lightning and thunder is thirty seconds or less, the athletic site should have already
been evacuated and all individuals relocated to a shelter.
e. If thunder is heard but the sky is blue, there is no immediate danger, and play can continue until
lightning is seen.
125. Which of the following findings on a female student athlete’s pre-participation examination would
most likely impact her ability to begin training with the cross-country team?
a. A blood pressure of 118/70 mm Hg
b. A heart rate of 60 beats per minute
c. A history of asthma that is controlled with medication
d. A hematocrit of 25%
e. A body mass index of 18
126. What therapeutic intervention would be most appropriate for a patient recovering from a knee
injury who is in the maturation-remodeling phase?
a. Compression and elevation
b. Isometric exercise in an immobilized position
c. Dynamic functional strengthening exercises
d. Aquatic exercise to maintain cardiorespiratory fitness
e. Cryotherapy
Refer to the following for questions 127–131:
An athletic trainer is doing some yard work outside his home during a day off. Suddenly, he hears a crash and a
shout from his neighbor’s backyard. Upon entering the scene, the athletic trainer sees his elderly neighbor
lying supine on the ground near a tipped over ladder.
127. The athletic trainer begins responding by performing a primary survey assessment. What
conditions is he looking for in a primary survey assessment? Select all that apply.
a. Unconsciousness
b. Broken bones
c. Vomiting
d. Absence of breathing
e. Severe bleeding
f. Shock
g. Rapid heart rate
128. The elderly neighbor is conscious and able to speak with the athletic trainer, but she is very pale
and reports significant pain. The neighbor explains that she was climbing on the ladder to pick fruit
from one of her fruit trees when she lost her balance and fell off the ladder, landing on her left hip. The
athletic trainer observes that the left hip is in slight adduction and external rotation with muscle
guarding. Based on all this information, the athletic trainer suspects a femoral fracture. He has a field
kit nearby in his vehicle. How should the athletic trainer proceed?
a. Splint the patient’s left hip and left knee.
b. Elevate the patient’s left leg to prevent shock.
c. Splint the patient’s left and right hips.
d. Splint the patient’s left hip, knee, and ankle as well as one side of the trunk.
e. Wait for EMS and then work together to lift the patient onto a spine board.
129. What special test would be most appropriate to determine whether the patient has a femoral
fracture so that EMS can respond appropriately when they arrive?
a. Scour test
b. Ely’s test
c. Patellar pubic percussion test
d. Craig’s test
e. Thomas test
130. Thanks to the athletic trainer’s rapid response, the patient got prompt emergency care and
received a confirmed diagnosis of a femoral fracture. The patient underwent surgery and is now two
months post-operation and is able to get around the house with a walker. At the last follow-up visit, the
physician provided the patient with a questionnaire that included rating her quality of life and how
effective she feels her care has been so far. This type of assessment is an example of which of the
following?
a. PROMs
b. SOAP
c. PICO
d. SORT
e. NEISS
131. The patient is now six months post-operation and has been doing regular rehabilitation. What
would be used in the patient’s rehabilitation to promote the regaining of neuromuscular control of the
hip and lower body muscles? Select all that apply.
a. Femoral glides
b. Standing exercises on unstable surfaces
c. Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF)
d. Walking exercises in balance shoes
e. Thermal ultrasound
f. Intermittent compression
g. Stability ball wall slides
h. Isokinetic exercise
132. An athletic trainer is out walking her dog in a park after work one day when she sees a jogger
collapse a short distance ahead of her. The athletic trainer finds the jogger unresponsive, immediately
activates EMS, and begins to provide CPR until EMS arrives. The athletic trainer’s actions save the
jogger’s life, but the jogger sustains some bruised ribs from the CPR process. What provides the athletic
trainer with limited protection from legal liability in this scenario?
a. The jogger’s health insurance
b. Informed consent
c. Good Samaritan laws
d. The athletic trainer’s liability insurance
e. An indemnity plan
133. A panel of athletic trainers each performed the same special test on an injured patient as part of a
research study to investigate a new diagnostic technique. The majority of the athletic trainers had the
same result for the test on the injured patient. This scenario best describes which of the following?
a. High test specificity
b. A positive likelihood ratio
c. High inter-rater reliability
d. Test sensitivity
e. Low intra-rater reliability
134. During a college baseball game, a player is hit in the chest by a stray ball and becomes
unresponsive. The athletic trainer is the first responder on the scene to provide care to the injured
player. There is confusion among the coaching staff on who should call 911, who should get the AED,
and who should manage the crowd. This confusion leads to a delay in the emergency response.
Following the incident, the staff meets to review and improve the emergency action plan (EAP). What is
the first priority the staff should clarify in the EAP to ensure a more efficient response in future
emergencies?
a. Type of emergency equipment needed for baseball
b. Roles and responsibilities of each team member during an emergency
c. Clear directions to the facility for the arrival of EMS
d. Current certifications in CPR, AED, and first aid for all sport staff members
e. Access to landlines whose locations are clearly marked
135. Which of the following would be an effective approach for the athletic trainer to promote
adherence in a patient who is undergoing a long therapeutic rehabilitation process?
a. Verbally explain all treatments and follow them up with written instructions.
b. Keep the exercise program the same each week so that the patient can develop mastery.
c. Rely on the patient’s peers or family to be sources of positive reinforcement.
d. Keep all exercises at a 5 or lower on a 1–10 pain scale.
e. Maintain a supportive, low-pressure environment by not setting specific goals.
136. In which of the following situations would it be most appropriate to use the upper quarter Y-
balance test?
a. To assess passive, active, and resistive motions in an older adult with frozen shoulder
b. To assess the presence of crepitation in a patient with a suspected patellar fracture
c. To assess the functional range of motion in a patient recovering from total knee replacement
d. To assess the presence of a pulse to evaluate nerve compression in an office worker with wrist pain
e. To assess dynamic upper extremity mobility and core stability in members of a volleyball team
137. A patient reports to the athletic trainer with back pain after twisting while trying to pick up a
heavy box. What test could the athletic trainer use to evaluate whether the patient’s acute injury is
specific to the lumbar spine?
a. Spurling’s test
b. Brachial plexus test
c. Knees-to-chest test
d. Vertebral artery test
e. Craig’s test
138. An athletic trainer is one of the on-staff employees at a large community-based recreational and
gym facility. A participant joins a pickleball recreational sports league offered by the facility and signs
a form acknowledging the potential risks of injury. During a pickleball match, the participant sustains a
torn meniscus. The participant is now considering filing legal action against the facility. Which of the
following best describes how assumption of risk affects the participant’s ability to pursue legal action?
a. The signed form automatically protects the facility from any type of legal action.
b. Assumption of risk only applies if the participant verbally acknowledged that they understood the
potential risks.
c. Since the participant got injured while at the facility, they can pursue legal action regardless of the
signed form.
d. The participant assumed the risks associated with physical activity by signing the form, which is likely
to limit their ability to pursue legal action.
e. Evidence of negligence is necessary in order for the participant to pursue any type of legal action.
139. The head football coach and the athletic trainer at a high school are doing an equipment inventory
at the end of the season. They find a few helmets left over from several years ago, but the helmets are
unused and still in their boxes. Before deciding to use these helmets for practice, they want to ensure
that this equipment meets safety standards. Which organization’s standards would be consulted for
this purpose?
a. National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS)
b. National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment (NOCSAE)
c. National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Injury Surveillance System
d. National Athletic Trainers' Association (NATA)
e. National Center for Catastrophic Sports Injury Research (NCCSIR)
140. Which of the following scenarios best illustrates implied consent to treat in an emergency
situation? Select all that apply.
a. An athlete who is unconscious after sustaining a severe head injury
b. A youth athlete who sustains a deep laceration and whose parents insist on providing first aid
themselves
c. An athlete with nut allergies who asks for the athletic trainer’s help administering her EpiPen after she
starts to feel dizzy during a team meal
d. An athlete who is unresponsive from a suspected drug overdose
e. An athlete with hypertension who requests aspirin due to experiencing unusual chest pain
f. An athlete with diabetes who verbally declines treatment for his hypoglycemia, insisting he can handle
it himself
141. A patient recovering from a triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) injury has gone through four
weeks of immobilization and will now be starting range of motion and strengthening exercises with the
athletic trainer. One of the goals in the patient’s plan of care is to regain normative range of motion at
the wrist. What would be the most effective way to measure progress toward this goal?
a. Administering sensory testing
b. Using a goniometer
c. Assessing self-reported pain levels
d. Using palpation
e. Measuring wrist girth with a tape measure
142. An ice hockey player is shoved headfirst into the boards when a fight between the teams breaks
out. The player is lying unresponsive on the ice as the athletic trainer approaches. The injured athlete
is wearing a helmet with a facemask, shoulder pads, thorax protector, elbow pads, gloves, athletic cup,
shin pads, and ice skates. The athletic trainer suspects a possible cervical spine injury. What is the
most appropriate initial action to take regarding the removal of equipment to provide care?
a. Remove the shoulder pads as preparation to slide the injured athlete onto a spine board.
b. Stabilize the head and neck while another rescuer prepares for helmet removal.
c. Remove only the facemask as preparation for providing rescue breaths.
d. Remove the thorax protector in case an AED is needed.
e. Leave all equipment on for transport by EMS to minimize harm caused by removing it.
143. An athletic trainer reads on the local news website that there is a potential outbreak of meningitis
in his area. What symptoms should the athletic trainer be aware of that would indicate meningitis?
a. Tingling in the extremities, irritability, and shallow respiration
b. Decreased physical performance, nausea, and craving ice
c. Painful urination and discharge
d. Stiff neck, headache, fever, and light sensitivity
e. Sore throat, wheezing, and coughing with mucus secretions
144. An athletic trainer is providing a pre-season educational talk to a group of college coaches on the
topic of preventing anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. Which of the following strategies should
be included in the educational talk? Select all that apply.
a. Use cleated shoes with longer cleats to provide more traction on surfaces.
b. Incorporate properly programmed plyometric exercises into athlete workouts.
c. Emphasize both strength and flexibility for the muscles that act on the knee joint.
d. Instruct athletes to train at lower intensities if they have sustained a mild knee injury.
e. Use elements of proprioception and balance in athlete workouts.
f. Ensure a strength ratio where the hamstrings are stronger than the quadriceps.
145. Which of the following most accurately reflects the proper procedure for evaluating a patient by
using the Trendelenburg test?
a. Have the patient lie supine and raise the legs to 90 degrees; observe for any pelvic tilt or asymmetry.
b. Have the patient squat to a 90-degree angle; observe for knee valgus or varus movement.
c. Have the patient stand on one leg and then perform a calf raise; observe for any imbalance or inability
to lift the heel.
d. Have the patient sit on the edge of a table and extend both legs; apply downward pressure to assess
hip flexor strength.
e. Have the patient stand on one leg and lift the other foot to bring the hip into flexion; observe the
position of the iliac crests.
Refer to the following for questions 146–150:
A 26-year-old soldier has been doing lots of running as part of his training as well as walking long distances
with heavy gear. He has started to experience knee pain during these training exercises. He reports that the
pain is a dull ache around the center of the knee that typically gets worse during activity. He has not noticed
any swelling but reports that the knee pain began gradually and has persisted over the past several weeks.
146. What is the most likely diagnosis based on the soldier’s report of his symptoms?
a. Larsen-Johansson disease
b. Knee plica syndrome
c. Osteochondritis dissecans
d. Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS)
e. Osgood-Schlatter disease
147. Which of the following assessment techniques would be appropriate to confirm the soldier’s
diagnosis based on his reported signs and symptoms? Select all that apply.
a. Lachman drawer test
b. Lever sign test
c. Patellar grind test
d. Apley distraction test
e. Patellar apprehension test
f. Posterior drawer test
148. Based on the reported signs and symptoms, which of the following would be intrinsic risk factors
that may have contributed to this patient's condition? Select all that apply.
a. Iliotibial band tightness
b. Worn-out footwear
c. Training on hard surfaces
d. Diabetes
e. Sudden increase in weekly running volume
f. Gluteus medius weakness
g. Low body mass index
h. Overpronation of the feet
149. Therapeutic intervention for this patient, based on his signs and symptoms, includes
strengthening of the hip and thigh muscles. What modality would be most suitable for helping re-
educate the patient on effective contraction of these muscles?
a. Graston technique
b. Iontophoresis
c. Microcurrent electrical nerve stimulation
d. Biofeedback
e. Shortwave diathermy
150. Which of the following best illustrates the concept of sequela for this scenario?
a. The soldier fills out a clinical questionnaire that asks for ratings of knee pain in various scenarios.
b. The soldier is assessed and found to have trigger points in the quadriceps muscles.
c. The soldier undergoes magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine the cause of his symptoms.
d. The soldier is told that he will need to avoid any activities that cause knee pain in the short term.
e. The soldier continues through his training without addressing the issue and develops knee
osteoarthritis years later.
151. An athletic trainer is incorporating multiplanar core stability exercises into a patient’s plan of
care. Which of the following core stability exercises would be suitable for this purpose? Select all that
apply.
a. Pelvic tilts on a stability ball
b. Weighted ball D2 proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) pattern
c. Squats with a Theraband
d. Hip-ups on a stability ball
e. Chopping pattern with tubing
f. Partial sit-up
152. An athletic trainer is working with a soccer team to improve their performance and reduce injury
risk. The athletic trainer incorporates exercises that use the entire kinetic chain, are multiplanar, and
promote neuromuscular adaptations by gradually changing variables like the base of support. Which of
the following is the most accurate term to describe these types of movements?
a. Functional
b. Isokinetic
c. Plyometric
d. Aerobic
e. Psychophysiological
153. A pole vault athlete falls from a height when her pole breaks during a jump. When the athletic
trainer reaches her, the athlete is conscious and bleeding from a large wound on the side of her head.
Vital signs and observation reveal that the athlete also has a weak, rapid pulse and that her skin is
moist and clammy. The athletic trainer suspects that the athlete is going into shock. What action should
be taken?
a. Elevate the head and shoulders.
b. Place ice bags at the neck and armpits to lower body temperature.
c. Provide the athlete with sips of cool water.
d. Administer an oral anti-inflammatory medication.
e. Guide the athlete through controlled breathing exercises to slow her heart rate.
154. A high school athlete wants to make the varsity team, and tryouts are six months away. He tells the
athletic trainer that he wants to lose body fat and gain muscle by doing regular exercise and eating a
balanced diet. The athlete asks if there are tests that can be done as a “before and after” to verify
whether he has lost body fat and gained muscle at the end of the six months. Which test or tests could
be used for this purpose? Select all that apply.
a. Bioelectrical impedance
b. Skinfold measurements
c. Body mass index (BMI)
d. T-test
e. Basal metabolic rate (BMR)
f. Inclinometer measurement
g. Strength-to-body-weight ratio
155. A patient with persistent moderate back pain underwent an x-ray to determine the cause of her
pain, with spondylolysis or spondylolisthesis as some of the possible causes. Which of the following
statements best describes the difference between spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis?
a. Spondylolysis is a stress fracture defect in the pars interarticularis, while spondylolisthesis involves
vertebral displacement and potential hypermobility.
b. Spondylolysis typically occurs in the cervical spine, while spondylolisthesis typically occurs in the
lumbar spine.
c. Spondylolysis is the result of a disc herniation, while spondylolisthesis is a more severe progression of
disc degeneration where the disc prolapses or extrudes.
d. Spondylolysis is treated conservatively, while spondylolisthesis always requires surgical intervention.
e. Spondylolysis is a congenital condition, while spondylolisthesis is a complication that presents with
sharp, radiating nerve pain.
156. A high school cheerleader sustained a concussion when she fell during a stunt and hit her head on
the floor. She has been resting for two weeks post-concussion and is back to all regular school activities
that involve mental function, like doing homework and using the computer. She tells the athletic
trainer that she is now feeling much better and that she wants to get back into her sport. Which of the
following statements best describes the best practice for this patient to return to activity after a
concussion?
a. The patient can return to sport but must wear protective headgear during high-risk movements like
stunts.
b. The patient’s symptoms must be fully resolved. If so, she can start with light exercise but not full sport
practice.
c. The patient must rest for two more weeks and pass a neurological assessment.
d. The patient is clear to return to sport because she has self-reported feeling better.
e. The patient can only do light exercise. She cannot return to sport, as the risk of second impact
syndrome is too high.
157. A fencing athlete comes to the athletic trainer with a complaint of elbow pain that has been getting
gradually worse, as well as noticing that their grip strength has felt significantly weaker. From the
patient history and observation, the athletic trainer suspects lateral epicondylitis and proceeds to
move on to palpation and special tests. Which of the following would be most indicative of this
diagnosis?
a. Positive valgus stress test
b. A carrying angle of 10 degrees
c. Positive Cozen’s test
d. Hemorrhage and significant swelling at the elbow
e. Positive pinch grip test
158. A sports team will be traveling frequently for the upcoming competitive season. Two of the team’s
members are concerned about the travel affecting their immunity and approach the athletic trainer to
ask about the value of taking a vitamin supplement. What information should be part of the athletic
trainer’s response? Select all that apply.
a. Only choose vitamins that have their safety and quality verified by a third-party organization.
b. Eating a wide variety of foods is likely to provide enough vitamins.
c. Taking large amounts of vitamins in supplement form can cause toxicity.
d. Vitamins can be useful in some cases for preventing illness.
e. Supplementing with vitamins is important for athletes because of the antioxidant benefits.
f. Seeing a certified nutrition professional, such as a dietitian, can help confirm if vitamin
supplementation is needed.
159. A patient is receiving massage as part of his plan of care. He tells the athletic trainer that he enjoys
the massage portion of the session and that it feels relaxing, but he wants to know how it is specifically
helping heal his injury. What is the best explanation for the value of massage in therapeutic
intervention?
a. Massage boosts the sensitivity of nociceptors to affect pain perception.
b. Massage is a modality that can reduce the need for NSAIDs.
c. Massage strengthens muscles by promoting muscle guarding.
d. Massage improves flexibility to help tissues regain normal range of motion.
e. Massage helps increase circulation and reduce swelling.
160. Which of the following patients would be most likely to benefit from the Graston technique as part
of their therapeutic intervention?
a. A powerlifter who ruptured her biceps brachii 48 hours ago
b. A sprinter who has strained his hamstring repeatedly and now has reduced range of motion
c. A construction worker who has developed bursitis in her knee
d. A basketball player in the inflammatory response phase of an ankle sprain
e. A gymnast with a snapping hip who is experiencing pain while walking
161. A swimmer presents to the athletic trainer with symptoms of tingling, pain, and weakness in her
right upper extremity. The results of special testing show a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.
What paired stretching and strengthening therapeutic intervention will be most effective for the
patient?
a. Stretch pectorals; strengthen rhomboids
b. Stretch upper trapezius; strengthen lower trapezius
c. Stretch biceps brachii; strengthen triceps
d. Stretch levator scapulae; strengthen latissimus dorsi
e. Stretch erector spinae; strengthen pectorals
162. A hockey athlete is hit in the face with an opponent’s stick, which fractures his mandible. As the
athletic trainer responds to the injured athlete, what other conditions should they suspect might have
occurred? Select all that apply.
a. Tooth fracture
b. Avulsion of facial skin
c. Orbital blowout fracture
d. Concussion
e. Septicemia
163. A young baseball player has been working with the athletic trainer to recover from Little League
elbow and is almost back to full function. The athletic trainer wants to provide the patient with
strategies to prevent future elbow injuries before his plan of care ends. Which of the following
strategies would be included? Select all that apply.
a. Incorporate cross-training periodically as a break from baseball.
b. Ensure adequate recovery between games.
c. Focus on maximal power in each training session.
d. Limit participation in other sports to avoid overuse.
e. Maintain correct throwing techniques.
f. Do consistent strength training and flexibility training for the upper extremities.
g. Use ice packs after every game.
h. Avoid strength training to limit the strain put on muscles.
164. A patient recovering from a comminuted fracture of the tibia has a long recovery ahead of her
until she reaches full function. She talks frequently during rehabilitation sessions about blaming
herself for the injury. The athletic trainer guides the patient through expressing more positive self-talk
to counter the statements of blame, along with thought-stopping techniques when the patient begins to
express doubts that her fractured tibia will ever fully heal. These techniques are examples of which of
the following?
a. Goal setting
b. Cognitive restructuring
c. Diverting attention
d. Imagery
e. Acceptance and commitment therapy
165. For which of the following acute injuries would the open basket weave taping technique be most
effective?
a. Dislocated shoulder
b. Grade 3 ankle sprain
c. Fractured wrist
d. Thigh contusion
e. Acute low back strain
166. Which of the following structures are involved in shoulder impingement? Select all that apply.
a. Sternoclavicular joint
b. Subacromial bursa
c. Anterior deltoid
d. Manubrium
e. Long head of the biceps tendon
f. Supraspinatus tendon
g. Coracoid process
h. Axillary nerves
167. During a pre-season injury screening, what finding would most likely indicate that an individual
may be at a higher risk for ankle injuries?
a. Morton’s toe
b. Previous history of a quadriceps sprain
c. Increased lumbar lordosis
d. Ankle dorsiflexion that is limited to less than 10 degrees
e. Knee valgus during a single-leg squat test
168. A recreational runner who overpronates has been working with the athletic trainer to improve
her plantar fasciitis. She has had to temporarily take a break from running and do cross-training
instead, but now her symptoms have improved consistently enough that she is ready to try a short run.
The athletic trainer chooses to use a taping technique on this patient to provide arch support before
her short run. What taping technique would be the most suitable for this purpose?
a. Rotary taping
b. Gibney technique
c. Hyperextension taping
d. LowDye technique
e. McConnell technique
169. Some members of a high school sports team have been experiencing low energy, fatigue, and
gastrointestinal distress during competition. The coach has found that these team members tend to eat
fast food for their pre-game meals and has asked the athletic trainer to speak to the team about pre-
event nutrition. Which of the following recommendations should be provided regarding pre-event
nutrition?
a. Consume a meal with higher amounts of protein and fat a few hours before competition to reduce
fatigue.
b. Choose foods that are higher in fiber in the pre-game meal to enhance digestion.
c. Consume mainly easily digestible carbohydrates a few hours before competition.
d. Choose a high-calorie meal to ensure sufficient energy levels throughout the game.
e. Increase water intake and avoid solid food a few hours before competition.
170. In which of the following situations would the Thomas test be most appropriate to use?
a. To diagnose adductor strain in a soccer player with groin pain
b. To evaluate hip flexor tightness in a runner with anterior hip pain
c. To diagnose patellar tendonitis in a basketball player reporting anterior knee pain
d. To assess iliotibial band tightness in a dancer with lateral knee pain
e. To evaluate hamstring tightness in a sprinter prone to hamstring strains
171. An unconscious patient lying supine begins to vomit as the athletic trainer is conducting his
primary survey. The athletic trainer brings out a suction device to ensure that the patient’s airway
remains clear. Which of the following reflects the most effective next step in using the suction device?
a. Keep the patient supine and elevate his legs.
b. Logroll the patient onto his side or rotate his head to the side.
c. Use a modified jaw thrust to open the airway.
d. Have another rescuer stabilize the cervical spine while tilting the head forward.
e. Perform a finger sweep and then roll the patient to a prone position.
172. Which of the following best reflects an operational cost for an athletic training program?
a. Knee braces
b. Alcohol wipes
c. Foam rollers
d. Treatment tables
e. Internet service
173. During a team dinner, an athlete suddenly clutches her throat, indicating she is choking. She is
unable to speak in response to the athletic trainer rushing to help, she is not coughing effectively, and
she is starting to look panicked. A coach goes to dial 911. The athlete nods in response to the athletic
trainer saying, “I am going to help you. Nod if that is okay.” Now that the athlete has given consent, what
should the athletic trainer do next? Select all that apply.
a. Perform abdominal thrusts.
b. Perform back blows.
c. Provide the athlete with a drink of water to try to wash down the object.
d. Perform a finger sweep to try to remove the object.
e. Perform chest thrusts.
f. Assist the athlete to the ground and begin chest compressions to maintain circulation.
174. A high school soccer athlete has been diagnosed with a concussion after colliding with another
athlete during a game. Which of the following should be prioritized in the initial stages of this patient’s
plan of care?
a. Positional traction
b. Light therapy such as LASER or LED
c. Exercises to regain neuromuscular control
d. Cognitive rest and gradual return to academic activities
e. Structural integration
175. A snowboarder is brought to the on-duty athletic trainer at the medical station of a ski and
snowboard resort by the resort’s emergency response team. The snowboarder arrives on a spine board
and initially is unconscious but then quickly regains consciousness and tells the athletic trainer that
she thinks she got a concussion from hitting her head on a patch of ice. After the athletic trainer takes a
patient history by asking more questions, which of the following reflects the proper procedure to
continue providing care to the patient?
a. Confirm a pulse, monitor the patient's vital signs, and document her level of consciousness.
b. Apply ice packs to the patient's head and neck, assess her pain levels, and monitor for any changes in
symptoms.
c. Observe the patient for aspects like disorientation, palpate the patient’s neck and skull, and administer
a neurological exam.
d. Release the patient from the spine board, assess her range of motion, and check for any deformities.
e. Monitor the patient's breathing and heart rate, assess for signs of shock, and provide oxygen if
necessary.